=== стр 1 ===
=:: -
=/
.)
,6
25
Love Book
Connectivity'" Relationships'" Lo e & Life
,"-
('
RA VRU HU

=== стр 2 ===
Love Book
~A VRU HU

=== стр 3 ===
Love Book
Written by Ra Uru Hu.
Published in the United States by:
Human Design America
120 A Valencia Road
Santa Fe, New Mexico 87505
Visit us on the World Wide Web at:
www.humandesignamerica.com
e-mail: office@humandesignamerica.com
Copyright © 2011 by Jovian Archive Corporation
Notice of Rights:
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means,
electronically, mechanically, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, in whole or in part, without prior written
consent of the publisher.

=== стр 4 ===
The moment that you can see love for what it is, you can really be
with someone. I mean you can really be with somebody. It's not
like you're being with somebody who's a potential that you're
going to work on, that maybe this will get better or that will change,
and so on. You can really be with someone because the love is
correct. It's like everything else about Design. Design is here to
strip away the generalizations that torture us, that we somehow
have to be exactly the way Hollywood does it, or whatever. Each
of us is unique in our capacity for love, and we all have it. The
moment that you're living out your nature, you get to experience
your capacity for love. That's something very special.

=== стр 6 ===
Love
The Illusion of Separateness
7
The Structure of Love
9
Mundane and Anti-Mundane Love
10
The Mechanics of Loving More
11
The Vessel of Love
A Place for Loving: Gate 25
14
Loving Humanity: Gate 15
15
Loving the Body: Gate 46
17
Loving Being Alive: Gate 10 (Transcendent)
19
The Seven Gates of Mundane Love
Self Love through Others: Gate 10 (Mundane)
22
Successful Love: Gate 44
25
Earning Love: Gate 40
27
Perfecting Love: Gate 58
31
Dreams of Love: Gate 41
33
Love and Purpose: Gate 28
37
Eternally Indecisive Love: Gate 55
40
Connectivity
Forms of Connectivity
43
Love Themes in Composite
The Brownings
44
Dominance
48
Compromise
49
No Sparks of Love
51
More on Compromise
52
The Wagners
53
Richard
53
Cosima
55
Richard & Cosima
58
The Future of Relationships
Centers' A Basis for Relating
_._
..
60
Genes Will Be Genes
62
Connecting Through Profile
65
The Future of Type
68
Strategy for Love & Life
Summary
70

=== стр 8 ===
Personality
Crystal
O
Magnetic
Monopole
I was born to be a romantic and I have spent my whole life loving. Falling in love. I never had any idea what the hell
that was, but I really enjoyed the program of it. I was very individual, being a freak. Those things always seem so
magical. They're the heart of our literary traditions, our music. If you turn on the radio, you'll hear the word love so
often, it sounds like a detergent being sold. It's everywhere. It's everywhere because it's the eternal mystery, and it is the
eternal mystery because it doesn't exist.
I don't want to start these three days sounding like I'm going to carve love to pieces, but I want to start from the basics.
What I'm really going to describe to you over the next three days is what I call connectivity: different ways in which
human beings and their geometry align to each other, different ways in which we interact with each other, and different
levels of connectivity. We have a word to describe all those various connectivities. We call it love.
I know that if I could climb inside of one of my cells, and get down to the nuclei and climb onto a genetic strand, if I
could stand beside a gene, I know damn well that that gene knows nothing about love. I know that. It knows what it is
to be a gene, and it doesn't even know what it is to be a whole. It has no idea. When I look at humanity, when I look
at life as a whole, I see a totality that is so vast that for most human beings it's incomprehensible. I call it a biverse, what
I call this vast, vast, vast place in which life and consciousness is merging.
The Illusion of Separateness
The most magical thing about a human is the illusion that we are separate. It's where all the suffering is. However, it is
the most magical thing about us, because we're not, but we have this incredible illusion of separateness. Everything
about the nature of our separateness is here in the G center, in each and everyone of us. At the core of this G center
is the magnetic monopole. This magnetic monopole is something that, in and of itself, is the last great mystery to be
discovered. It literally holds us together in the illusion of our separateness and it moves us along the track.
If you go back to the very beginning, to the start of the life program, the design crystal and the monopole belong
together. They belong together. They fit together like a hand going
into a mold. Now, think about what happens. In the moment of your
conception, you have a design crystal and a magnetic monopole and
they're bound together. In the moment within the womb that the life
begins, it can only begin when that design crystal (what is going to
manifest your form) and that monopole separate. Now, this is an
ancient formula. In this separation, we lose love, because, you see,
there is only one way to describe love. The only true way you can
describe love is wholeness, where everything experiences together.
That's our oneness, and it's a oneness that is transcendent because
we have no capacity within our limitation to participate in it. As long
as we are alive, the design crystal that sits in our ajna and the monopole
that sits in our G center, are apart from each other and all they want
to do is meet again.
7

=== стр 9 ===
8
It's one of my great jokes. You want to find love? Die. You get it immediately. It's the mystery of love. You get it
immediately. You get it immediately in the sense that the moment the monopole is hooked up with the design crystal, it's
whole. Our whole totality is being pulled together, literally, by all of those monopoles. So, there's no way that we are
designed to experience the one. Why do you think we made up monotheism? It's one of the most absurd concepts that
human beings ever made up. We made it up because we know, sort of, somewhere inside of us that we are a totality,
that there is, somehow, some kind of wholeness in that. But we cannot know that. It's one of the things I know so deeply
about life. That's something that we can never know because that's the mystery that ties us to the totality. It's not for us
to know. That's not our job coming into these forms.
The experiment of incarnation is to imbue form with consciousness. In the fulfillment of bringing consciousness into form
is the capacity to find a way to connect to the other and, in the most primitive sense, begin to create a whole. It's our
process. I will show you all the ways we connect and all the illusions of love that go with it. All these ways of connecting
are just part of our program. It's part of our program to know how to be one with the other. It's the thing that pulls us
the deepest. It doesn't matter what the sex is. It doesn't matter what the circumstances are. Each and everyone of us has
layers and layers and layers of connectivity to others.
Now, because we have prejudices, we've given all of these different connectivities different labels. Some are really
love; some are just desire. Some are this. Some are that. We give them all the code names, but know the truth: none of
them are love. None of them are love. It's a generic term. It's the large umbrella that covers what is truly simply
connectivity, and that isn't to diminish its beauty.
In saying that there is no true love, recognize that it's our job to try to find a way to it. We're designed, through
connectivity, to keep on inventing all kinds of ways of loving. That's our job. We are actually very loving creatures.
We really are, but it's not the love of this kind of schmaltz on the layers. We're really connecting creatures. We're
networking creatures. We're bonding creatures. That's us. That's our specie.
Seeing these things mechanically doesn't take away their beauty. It doesn't. The fact that I know that I'm playing the
game of connectivity doesn't diminish its beauty in the larger umbrella that we call love. I just realize what it is and
I'm not a sucker to the illusion. The illusion is a killer. I will take you through every single layer of connectivity, and
then you will see what the mechanics are, and in that, perhaps, you'll find what is correct for you in terms of what
connectivity is really the connectivity that makes the difference for you, that gives you the sense of satisfaction that
you've found what you cannot have in life.
Aren't we all lonely? Isn't it just the truth? And no matter whom we have in our life, and no matter the quality of our
love, whether it's parent or child or lover, we all know it's not THE love. We all know that, all the time. That's the
great mystery. We're never allowed to get there in these packages. Otherwise, we would stop looking.
Consciousness would not grow, nor all the beauty of our diversity and our magic, because in the end, each and
everyone of us is a different aspect of love. Each and everyone of us is a mythology, a perfect mythology, a
perfect fractal of the love of the whole. I like the joke. When you get to see the joke, you give up on thinking that
you have a right to what you can never have, and all the sadness will leave your body.

=== стр 10 ===
The Structure of Love
There is a structure and, like everything that has to do with Human Design, the moment that you can really grasp the
structure, you can begin to see how this works. I'm going to show you three different kinds of components that make up
the ability to identify themes of connectivity, in terms of how people relate to it as love, and also to see the larger context
of not only what the theme is, but of how the theme actually operates.
It works this way. There are specific gates of love. I'm going to go through the specific gates of love: the way human
beings operate in connection to each other through the matrix of design. When you see two body graphs come
together, it's obvious. You see how they connect, and we all know there are different ways in which we connect when
two graphs come together. One of the things to recognize about the real nature of love is that when any of these gates
of love are part of body graph partnership connectivity, this is where you have these very powerful themes of love, or
the assumption of love, emerge.
So, I'm going to show you the gate themes and then I'm going to show you how the gate themes operate mechanically
in partnerships where people meet. Then finally, we're going to see it in the context of incarnation and in the context of
type. In other words, we're going to go through three stages of looking at how we experience, mechanically, what we
call love and what the different kinds of love look like. In that, by the way, you will see yourself. And of course, that's
always the best part of the journey.
First, I want to show you two illustrations (see illustrations on page 10). I want you to be able to see the ten gates that
represent the thematics of love. Now, in these ten gates, it's both a ten and an eleven, because the 10th gate is going
to appear as a gate of love that operates in two different ways. In other words, the 10th gate is very important in terms
of the thematics of love. We're going to see that it is these ten gates through which you live out your theme of love.
All of us, generally speaking, have a fixed theme of love in life, whichever of those gates you have. (Some people won't
have any of them, i.e. they won't have a fixed theme, and you should see how they look at life!) The moment we get
connectivity to that theme is the moment we begin to experience the illusion of love. Remember, the not-self has been
taught about love by not-selves. In other words, many of the things that I describe about the nature of love are really very
difficult for the not-self to digest. The true self, because it can make accurate and correct decisions in its process, tends
to make the right decisions in terms of who should be in their life, who should be their lover, and so forth. So, they tend
to experience what is correct for them in terms of connectivity.
It's very important to begin with, when you're looking at these ten gates, as I go through each of them in detail, to
recognize that this is where love emerges in us. This is where our themes of love are. Depending on how others connect
to us (and remember, that's about all the others: parents, lovers, children, friends, community, family, tribe, and so onL
there's always going to be forces connecting to your themes of love.
Only when you begin to really be correct yourself does that stop being terribly confusing because out of the not-self, you
can have the same damn theme of love over and over and over again with the same forces that aren't good for you. The
moment that you're really operating as yourself, those themes of love operate correctly. In other words, you get the right
kind of connectivity, and that's the whole point of this.
Alii want to do for you is to illustrate these themes and how they work, and then you can see those themes emerge through
your own practice of this knowledge. You'll see that what doesn't belong to you, the themes of love that aren't activated in
your chart, are the ones that drive you crazy. Those are the ones that you think you should have, that you think belong to
you, and when somebody comes along and brings you that, you think you've found love. Then, oh boy, do you get hurt.
9

=== стр 11 ===
Mundane and Anti-Mundane Love
So, we have two kinds of themes that are at work. Some people will have
only one side or the other side. Some will have both, but please understand:
they are very, very different in the way in which they operate in terms of
meeting the other, regardless of the quality of the actual connectivity,
because thematically, they're different.
Then you have the seven mundane gates of love. Each of these gates of love
carries with it a demand of personal connectivity, and through each of these
seven gates of mundane love, we get our illusions of love. That is, our illusions
of persona/love. Each of them operates through mundane terminology, through
mundane keynotes. It's about finding love through those themes with the other.
Transcendent Love
Anti-Mundane Gates of Love
There are two kinds of thematic gates of love. There are the anti-mundane gates of love, here in the Vessel of Love. This
is a love that is deeply rooted in the monopole itself. It is the potential of transcendent love, and rarely does it feel
strongly as personal love. As you'll see as we go through the gates, the
connectivity that is being sought through the G center is a transcendent,
transpersonal connectivity that goes beyond simply identifying with another.
It's anti-mundane.
These mundane gates of love are
looking for love with somebody, and
they're looking for that love to emerge
through whatever that theme is. In the
four gates of the Vessel of Love, it's
finding love through somebody, and
the love itself isn't even necessarily in
that being. It is through them, if you
will. So, two basic themes of love: the anti-mundane (the transcendent potential)
and the mundane.
Recognize something: Human Design is a binary. It's nice to say these are the
gates of love, but you know, they're the gates of hate, too. They're the gates of
'I love' or 'I don't love'. Those themes are always at work. Otherwise, you
would not be protected. Think about it. If you have a gate, a strong gate in your
design, a theme of love in your design, you're going to meet the call to that all
the time. You need to be able to discern in that. You need to be able to avoid
being fooled by being pulled to the same themes over and over and over and
over again, recognizing that there may be very few examples within that
thematic, in the connectivity, that will really work for you. So, look at it in your
map, and keep this in mind as I take you through these gates.
Personal Love
Mundane Gates of Love
10

=== стр 12 ===
The Mechanics of Loving More
As long as I've been conscious of the concept of what love is, and throughout my process of dealing with people and
listening to their stories, there's something that emerges that is so obvious, and it emerges all the time. I can see it almost
everywhere. What emerges is that one partner always loves the other partner more. It's one of the oldest stories in love.
It's a story you see all the time. It leads to all of that, "Why don't you love me as much as I love you?" and on, and on,
and on. But it's one of the most common things in love. It's one of the most common things in partnerships. It's one of the
most common things. Along with that, because it does exist, because it's a reality, come all the prejudices in the way in
which the maya confuses and distorts things, in the way the not-self looks at things.
I'll give you a simple way of understanding that. Think about the difference of having a gate of love in an open center
and having a gate of love in a defined center. If you've got a gate of love in an open center, and you need somebody
who brings an electro-magnetic connection to that, you love them much more than they love you. It's nothing more than
that. It's not a problem. It's just the way the mechanics work. If you're one who has the defined gate of love, you don't
have that same kind of response. You don't. Your gate of love is working. The theme is always there. It's just investigating
other connectivity. But if that gate of love is in an open center, it seems like the love is THE one: "This is the one! This is
it! I've got to have it!" And then you get all the problems because of the psychology and the lies that are there. Then you
get all of this discomfort: "Well, if I love you this much, and you don't love me as much, then we have a problem in our
relationship." Not true. It's just mechanics.
This is one of the things to understand about the beauty of what Design does. It isn't going to take away the magic of
how good love feels, no matter what the connectivity is, but it allows you to understand how it works. The moment you
understand how it works, you can relax. You can allow the love, the connectivity, to operate the way it's meant to
operate, with you being correct in that. Then you really get to experience what's there, and if you have a gate of love
in an open center, you're there to learn about that.
I have many gates of love. Almost all of them are defined. But you know, there's one gate of love that I have that's wide
open. It seduced me endlessly in my life. And now it doesn't. I know the hook. I happen to have my defined gates, so
I know that I will get love in those places and that's where it's correct for me. I'm not here to be pulled into desire. That's
not me, and I know it's a trap because I know, in those situations, that it's unnatural for me.
You see, if you're correct, where you will find love is where love is correct in you, the mechanisms for love that are
correct in you. We're a totality; there are all kinds of variations. There are people who will know nothing but this deep,
empty yearning, because their gates of love are in open centers and it seems like it's always the other and they're
always totally absorbed, and they get lost in them, and then the gate of love is taken away and they go through this
deep pain. It's everything.
Most of us have these gates within us, and it's through these gates that we can learn by being ourselves, not by
intellectually making a decision: "I'm not going to go into this love, or that love, or that other love, because it's not really
correct for me." It's not about that. When you're correct, when you're living out your strategy, what you'll see is that the
r~soJlaJlc~ is 10 rhose rhelnes of love thaI are correct for you, and then slowly, you can de-condition yourself froln
thinking that all of those themes of love you don't have are what you deserve, or what you need, or what is important
for you, because it's not true.
The moment that you can see love for what it is, you can really be with someone. I mean you can really be with
somebody. It's not like you're being with somebody who's a potential that you're going to work on, that maybe this will
11

=== стр 13 ===
12
get better or that will change, and so on. You can really be with someone because the love is correct. It's like everything
else about Design. Design is here to strip away the generalizations that torture us, that we somehow have to be exactly
the way Hollywood does it, or whatever. Each of us is unique in our capacity For love, and we all have it. The moment
that you're living out your nature, you get to experience your capacity For love. That's something very special.

=== стр 14 ===
It all starts in the G center, and it starts with anti-mundane love. It's anti-mundane because the nature of love through the
Vessel of Love is loving. These are loving gates, but it doesn't mean they love you. This is very confusing for people. If
you ever meet Vessels of Love, and there are a lot of them around, you'll discover that, in fact, they are very loving, but
it doesn't mean they love you. They are loving. That's very different, and it's not mundane. Mundane love is very
personal. It's personal love. It's that personal connection of finding love through and with the other. But when you're
dealing with the Vessel of Love, these are loving gates, and they can often be very disturbing because that loving, while
they're with you, is that they're looking beyond you for a greater love. Always. Always. Their way of searching for a
greater love is by being naturally loving, but it doesn't mean they love you.
By the way, it doesn't mean they don't love you. It just means they're loving. It's something to understand. It's so
deceptive. I watch that in one of my children. Vessel of Love. Great Vessel of Love. Incredibly loving, but I know his
relationship to his friends. He is loving, but he doesn't love them. Loving is his way. It's just his way. The moment that you
really understand this about the Vessel of Love, you'll stop exalting it, and you won't make it personal.
When you're dealing with Vessel people, or you're dealing with themes of love out of the Vessel of Love, remember: if
you're looking for the personal, you're going to be very, very, very disappointed. But if you enjoy accepting loving,
even though you know that, at any moment, they can love the tree that is beside you, or a person, or the crowd more
than you, or whatever, if you can deal with that, because they're loving, they can be very nice to have around, but it
doesn't mean it's personal.
13

=== стр 15 ===
14
The first thing to understand is that if that's what you meet, if you have the polarities, the harmonics to these gates, so
this is a kind of love that's going to be in your geometry, it's so easy to be fooled. My recommendation is to enjoy the
loving. Don't look for the personal. Just enjoy the loving. It's really nice.
A Place for Loving - Gate 25
When you look at the wheel, and the way in which the
quarters of the mandala are divided, the very first quarter
starts at the 13th gate and goes to the 24th gate. This is
the quarter of Initiation. This is the original love, if you
will, that's in us. This first love, the 25th gate, is the
universal love. It's the most obviously non-personal. It's
non-personal. It's not about loving the universe. It's about
being loving in the universe. It's about having a place to
be loving towards what everything is, but it isn't personal.
I'm a 25, I'm very loving in terms of how I think of Ibiza,
as an example. But I actually don't love Ibiza. I'm loving
towards it because, through it, I get to something else.
You can notice that in a place like this. The 25th gate is
the gate of the Priest, the gate of the Priestess. They're
very loving, but they don't love you. They love that larger
whatever, and they're trying to get to that larger whatever through being loving, and then we think it's personal love.
We think that our master loves us. We think that our priest or priestess, or whatever it is, loves us, and they don't.
They're just loving. The quality of their loving is that everything deserves to be treated that way.
I'm loving with the trees, the dogs, the plants, but it's not love. It's just the way I am with it. It's not specific. It's not
personal. It's the same way with me and you. I play the game. I'm a 25. This is the priest game. I'm an initiator, and I
have a very unique form of transcendent loving, as you know. It's very, very cool because most of it comes out of the 25.
What I really love is Human Design, but I can be loving to fulfill my love for Human Design.
Every time you meet somebody who has a gate of love in the Vessel, don't get carried away with thinking that this is
all going to be for you. It's not, but it can be really nice to be there if you can accept that it's not just for you. That's
the beauty of transcendent love. It really is. Transcendent love is a love that doesn't have to be personal to feel
good, to give you that sense of the joy and the possibility of life with the other. It's just not personal.
Again, one of the things to recognize about understanding mechanics is that you, yourself, can begin to distinguish
what is impersonal that you can fall for, and that can be very disturbing, and what is impersonal in you that you need
to live out without feeling guilty. I know all of the projection with my trip with people I've taught over the years. If you
don't understand the kind of being you are, you wonder why you're not some cuddly little brown bear guru. Well, I'm
not, and it's okay. And then you're not wandering around inside saying, "Well, what's wrong with me? Why don't I
have this kind of love? Why don't I show love in this way?" It's not possible. You can only be what you are. I live out
what I am, and then I get to see how all of that works and how people deal with that.
The Vessel is beautiful. It really is, but the moment you try to make it personal, you're going to end up with the hate that

=== стр 16 ===
comes with the love. When loving stops being loving l it is the coldestl most frightening thing you/ll ever meet. Just like
the vast universe that it loves l this is a deepi deepi dark l cold place l and the moment that anybody tries to turn my 25-
loving into something personal I they know how cold I get. It has nothing to do with a decision. It has nothing to do with
me thinking that. This is the natural response of my 25 moving out of a defined center in part of my single definition. Ws
everything that I am and it affects everything that I am.
I watch that. I watch that click. Ws the thing to be clear about the Vessel: if you try to make their love personal l you get
a horror movie in return, and all of that loving seems like something ugly, phony and unreal because it's not mundane.
Then, instead of people of the Vessel being happYI and having good relationships, and feeling loving l most of the time,
thelre under pressure that nobodls getting from them what everybody wants from them l that they're not loving the way
that people expect them to love. Thelre accused of being shallow in their loving.
It's just all about knowing who you are. There/s nothing wrong with any of us. The only thing that is wrong with human
beings is ignorance. Once you get rid of ignorance, there's nothing wrong with any human being. We are all here to
be correct and to experiencel because each of as aspects needs to experience love l but as it is. Ws not that simple that
it's one gate. I have many. We all do. We have variations in open centers and in defined centers. All of the things are
there for uS I but it is our being correct that allows us to experience the love that's right for uSI and not to be uncomfortable
with what it iS I and not to feel guilty about what you express as love l or don't have as love.
Oh l that takes away a huge burden. We/re obsessed with this because we are designed to be connectivel and we
suffer so much from it. We have all these damn myths that are lies about what it is and what it means and what it's
worth. No priest wants to be told to their face that they don/t really love their parishioners l but Ws true. Let's have some
truth. Truth isn't ugly. Loving isn't ugly. Loving is really nice. Take it for what it is. But don't make a personal demand. You
won't, if you/re correct.
Loving Humanity - Gate 15
We've seen the first theme of impersonal love (the 25) in
the quarter of Initiation l so out of Initiation, the first initiating
love is transcendent. Love in that sense, transpersonallove l
is something that needs to be initiated. That/s why we ended
up with priesthoods and priests and so forth. It needs to be
initiated: love thy neighborl love God l and other concepts
of love. Human Design is based on a fundamental
transcendent love that everyone should love themselves.
This is about initiating love and it's about initiating love
transpersonallYI in the impersonal sense. In other words,
basically initiating loving. Loving.
When we come to the second quarterl we come to the
i'i
"
~
ii
~
quarter of Civilization. We go from the yang initiating of
love l to the yin form of love, and Ws through the 15th gate that we find the form of love l and the form of love is very
specific. Ws called human. That's the form of love.
15

=== стр 17 ===
16
In one of my mystical courses, I talked about the fact that human beings are nothing but the breath of love. That breath
of love is found in the form itself. The transcendent love is the love that created us, so we have this worship of the creator
themes, and it is the form, and the form is human. The first love is initiation, but the second love is that you have live it
out, not simply out there in the totality with every bird and bee and stone, but that you have to live out love through the
form that we were given, which is the form of us as humans. So, the 15th gate is the love of humanity, and it is,
basically, loving being human.
When you're looking at the 25th gate, you can always see a priest. When you're looking at the 15th gate you can
always see a politician. Their loving of humanity serves a larger purpose, and that larger purpose is to keep the savage
bastards from killing each other: send them to school, give them proper rules, support their moral development, and so
on. That's the love of humanity.
When you meet the 15th gate, what you're meeting is a gate that's telling you how you should love in your form as
human, and that we have to get to that love logically. The 25th gate is romantic. It's individual, this initiation of the
larger love. The romance with a god you can't know, like the romance with a woman or man that you can't have:
unrequited love for the great force. But when you come here to the 15th gate, you come to the collective. You come to
logic, and the logic says, let's organize humanity in a way in which they won't kill each other. So, we have governments
all over the world trying to stop wars by organizing it so human beings can be more loving towards each other. The
more sophisticated a society you live in, the more that loving is written in the constitution. "You will be loving with the
foreigners that move in next door. Don't kill them. It's okay. This is our moral standard."
When you meet a 15th gate, because there is that potential in them, transpersonally, to care about humanity, it doesn't
mean they care about you specifically. The fact that they think that humanity should operate in a certain way, the
moment you make that personal, you've got a problem with them. It's always that way with transpersonal gates. It's
always that way with the anti-mundane. Their interest isn't you. Like the politician that's shaking hands in the crowd, you
think he cares about those whose hands he's shaking? Not at all. He cares that there are 2,000 people in the auditorium.
He cares that they may all vote for a platform that is going to make humans more loving to each other.
Through this gate, we see every horror possible. This is the gate of extremes. This gate operating personally in the not-
self realm creates everything from concentration camps to killing fields. "The only way we can organize our society so
everybody is loving is that we have to get rid of those who don't love. They're the ones that live over there. Let's kill
them." It's been going on throughout our history. This channel, the 5/15, is the source of the pattern of all life. I have
spoken to generators about the absolute essential importance of understanding what the 5th gate does. It establishes
the pattern, and the pattern can be correct. That pattern will condition this 15th gate. If everybody is operating correctly
in their pattern, then what's possible for us, through organization, is that we can be organized in such a way that we
do experience loving, In other words, we experience what we call tolerance.
The whole goal of the 15th gate, at its highest level, is to establish rules of tolerance so human beings can get along.
By the way, again, it's not personal. They want human beings to get along this way so that the society can keep
developing and they keep their job, and everybody does better. It is a love, but don't be fooled by it.
No matter what I'm going to tell you, no matter what I tell any student ever in my work, the knowledge in and of
itself is not the thing. It's who you are and the way you live that's the thing. When you follow your strategy, whatever
is right for you is there. You don't have to know what the hell it is. You'll find out. If you have any questions about
love in your life, be yourself and you'll discover, without looking at your chart, what themes are real for you and
what aren't. You'll meet them. You'll know. It's there in you. But it's important for you to see that when you look at a

=== стр 18 ===
road map like this and you see things for what they are, just taking that in intellectually is not the point. It'll just help
you when you are living yourself to know, "Aha, it's this one. I knew it was this one. I always knew it was this one,
but now I know it's this one for sure. And I know that one was really a mistake." That's the lifting of the burden so
the de-conditioning can be completed, so you can get rid of what's not you, and so you can live out purely what
really is you.
This very, very impersonal gate: yes, they're loving, sort of, as long as you're operating correctly according to their
collective vision of how human beings are supposed to get along.
Loving the Body - Gate 46
The third quarter is the quarter of Duality. In the first
quarter, you begin with the initiation of consciousness,
and that consciousness can only thrive in form. Through
the form, you have to meet the other. Everything about
the quarter of Duality is about bonding. Given that the
46th gate is a transcendent, transpersonal, anti-
mundane gate, the fact that it's in the quarter of Duality
often makes it deeply confusing. Even more than that,
the 46th gate is the gate of the body. It's the gate of
the love of the body. That is, the body is a temple. The
body is this extraordinary environment. You see the
movement: you start off with this love of everything,
and then you move to this love of being part of a
specie IhumanL and then you move to this personal
human body. We've moving deeper and deeper into
the fractal of what it is to be us, and these are all
different qualities of love as we move along.
That 46th gate is always a difficulty because it is the mother of all fears. The 46th gate is deeply connected to all of the
gates of the splenic center. They all have the same relative chemistry. The deepest fears that we have in our body are
all expressed through the body of the 46. The whole thing about the body is that only when you take the body
transcendently can you stop hurting it.
These bodies are magical. These vehicles are truly magical vehicles. The only way you can transcend fear is by
accepting the beauty of your vehicle, by accepting its perfection. By the way, all I'm saying is accept your type and your
strategy, because that's what it is: your body. It is one of the things I've stressed over the years about what it means to
live out who you are: there is a refinement that takes place in your physical vehicle. The moment that you don't have to
build up layers of calluses because you're meeting resistance all the time, your body changes. It changes. Sometimes
the change is obvious on the surface. Sometimes it's inside, the way the chemistry works.
What happens to the 46th gate is that at the other end of the 46th gate is this gate that says, "I'm ready to make a
commitment. I'm ready to make a commitment. I'm ready to make a commitment." And the 46th gate says, "I love this
body." They end up in personal relationships. Personal relationships. It doesn't work.
17

=== стр 19 ===
18
Everything about the 46 is about recognizing the beauty of everybody's form. It's about understanding the beauty of
each body as a unique vessel, because that's really what the 46th gate represents. It really represents the structure: that
love is this form. Let me give you a frontal lobotomy and you'll find out in a hurry that there's no love if I manipulate this
form negatively. This form is love. This form is created as an act of love. It is all that.
Beings are so dissatisfied with what it is to be themselves that one of the first things that they fault is the form: the body,
its limitations. Ah, but its magic! Only when you live as yourself can you discover loving your vehicle. Loving its
limitation. It's not about you having to be beautiful. It isn't about that. It's all relative. It's in the acceptance of the
perfection of your limitation. The moment that you're living out your strategy, you discover that you were given the best
vehicle. I don't want to drive anybody else's car, you know? I like driving in this one. It's the first thing that really comes
as an enormous smile. It's this, "Hey, you know? It's a pretty good model. It's all right. There's nothing wrong with this
one." It's true for all of us. This is what this is about.
This gate has a name in English and it's very special. It's called Serendipity. It's a made-up word. It means being in the
right place at the right time. In this body: right place, right time. That's the game. So the 46th gate is either going to be
surrendered or confused. Always. Perfectly surrendered in the acceptance of what they are. Incredibly confused at the
personal level in dealing with commitment. So, what are they looking for? They're looking to discover the magic of the
vehicle in everyone. That was my first thrill in being a professional analyst. I would look at peoples' charts and I would
forget about their not-self sitting beside me and all their crap. I would look at those charts and I would think, wow, what
a vehicle! Too bad the passenger is fucked up. Wow, you should drive this car! Forget about the rental that you've got,
take this one. This is a Ferrari! Go out there and have some fun!
That's what this gate is about. It's a wonderful love. I know so many people who have been masseurs who have this gate.
It's like trying to let people know, "It's okay, your body. It's really a good body. It's nice. You should really love it, and look
after it. Care for it. All of those things." By the way, it's not about anybody's rules. Again, by being yourself, you will
discover that your vehicle is right. It's correct. Remember, the one thing about discovering your uniqueness is that you don't
have to measure anymore. It's the most important thing about uniqueness: you don't have to measure. We're all different. As
long as we're all not-self, measurement is what we have to do. That person's okay; that person is a jerk. That's our
measurement. It's going on all the time. But the moment that you're truly living as yourself, there is no measurement.
Nobody's going to measure me. You can do what you like. I don't care. I am what I am. It's one of the oldest mystical
things: I am I am I am. But that's the truth. It's the magic of acceptance of these forms. I absolutely adore being in a body.
I love it. It's warm. It's mysterious. It's incredibly complex. I don't have to do anything. All I've got to do is sit up here in
the cockpit and watch the movie go by. Incredible thing. What I get to experience through this vehicle, this magical,
magical instrument! And look at the way human beings deal with their bodies. It's a horror movie. So, the moment that
you have human beings living correctly as themselves, the first thing is the recognition that this is a holy vehicle. It's
perfect. It's perfect for you. It's perfect for me. It's perfect for each of us.
These people really get into a lot of trouble because their way is to end up trying to demonstrate through personal love
that the other should love their vehicle. It never works. It's transpersonal. They have to love their own. In loving their
own, ultimately, they meet all of that and they will find the correct commitment on the other side: that commitment that
transcends from the love of the body.
This is one of the most tantric of channels. This is where it isn't about the physical connection to somebody else's body,
but the miracle that happens when you leave the body together, this transcendent experience of what the perfection of
forms meeting can be. There is not a hell of a lot of tantra in the world because most of these human beings are really
messed up. They don't get there because they don't love their vehicles.

=== стр 20 ===
Loving Being Alive - Gate 10 (Transcendent)
Now we get to the final quarter, Mutation, and we get to the
most aloof and distant of the transcendent gates of love, the
10th gate. Within the metaphor of the Vessel of Love, it is out
of the 10th gate that the vessel pours what it holds: the spirit
of life.
The 10th gate is also a part of Integration. It's the deepest
individual, melancholic, self-absorbed aspect you can find
in the body graph. The 10th gate is rarely, rarely drawn into
the personal because they're too absorbed in themselves.
They're absorbed in themselves through their behavior
because their behavior (this is the gate of behavior) is
everything. But this gate is very complex. It is the only gate
of the Vessel of Love that opens up to three different other
gates. This 10th gate conditions many, many channels, i.e.
much information. It's the only gate that is both transcendent
and mundane, and so there is eternal confusion between the
two. It's always at work.
I'll give you a taste first of the transcendent. You see, the love that's in the 10th gate is not about everything. It's not about
humanity. It's not about the body. It's about being in the world. It's about loving being alive in the world. It's about loving
living and dying in the world. It's about being alive in the world.
I have a very strong 10th gate and I spent my deconstruction years in Ibiza sitting on a hill by myself, vibrating. Staring.
The deepest, deepest part of me was so thrilled to be in the world. Just to be in the world. What it means to be alive in
the world. It's not alive in a cave. It's not the body separate from the life. It's not the transcendent universal that you can't
touch. It's the world we live in. And being alive, being a sentient being, a conscious being, being this thing in the world,
ah, that's something to really love, and this is the transcendent level of the 10th gate.
Out of that kind of love, you get what appears to be perversity. I love being in the world, but I know that the world is
mostly a toilet, and the parts that aren't a toilet are killing grounds. Being in the world, this world, has so much ugliness,
but I love being in this world. This is the package.
In the early days people would come up to me ask me what I thought about this or that, like peace movements, and so forth.
People would say to me, "There should be peace on earth," and I would say, "No, there should be peace and war on
earth," because I love the world as it is. It would get them upset, but the 1Oth gate is about loving the world as it is.
The 10th gate comes from an ancient tradition in China, a Confucian tradition. They used to build gateways, just gates:
two posts and a cross beam, often very pretty and painted. These gates were on pathways. You didn't need them to be
there; there were no doors to open up. It was just a gate. If you look at the 20th hexagram, you see that whole thing.
This is all about finding the Ii, finding the way, in the now. The 10 to the 20 is Awakening. It's the awakening to what
life really is. It's not about moral judgments about life. It's not about wanting to fix it; this is not a collective gate. This is
not the 15 saying, "Let's fix it and make the world operate this way," and the other side says, "No let's make it operate
this way."
19

=== стр 21 ===
20
It isn/t about any of that. It is about the most difficult surrender of all: to surrender to the precariousness of life. One
moment you/re here and the next moment you/re gone. One moment you have everything and the next moment irs
taken away. There are moments you have love and there are moments that you loose it. There are moments of pain.
There are moments of ugliness. There is the whole landscape l all of it. I hear people complain to me about the earth and
humans polluting itl and all that stuff going on. This is my world and I like it. I accept it. When you look at this world and
you accept it at the transcendent level l what you're accepting is everything and everyone. Each and everyone of us are
as black as black and as white as white as possible l and we carry it all inside of us like the world around us. To accept
the world is to accept the truth: we do not control it. Ws not our world to play with. It isn/t. We/re of it. We are just simply
of it.
The transcendent level of the 10th gate is a level that saysl this is the world and irs wonderful l or this is the world
through the not-self and I hate it. I have met so many people who hate the world. As you will see I the mundane value
of this gate is to love yourself. Ws to love yourself. The not-self that does not love itself hates the world. There is so much
hatred on this planet for this world. It blows my mind. It really does. I meet it all the time. Through that level of love l to
love the world for what it iS I to be surrendered in the recognition that it can be only what it iS I is the transcendent quality
of understanding that value for everyone and everything l that life is holy. Forget about bodies and stuff. Life is holy. This
is the movie.
1
1m so grateful to have a world to play in. This is the magic i and in accepting thatl you accept everything. You accept
that it is what it is and it will go where it goes l because when you accept thatl you accept that the world has a behavior.
Ws transcendent from your trip. Ws not personal. I know the behavior of the world l and there is a part of the behavior
of the world I donIt like. Ws the world. Ws not in charge. Nobody is in charge.
This is where you wake up. In this gate l everybody can get the ultimate joke: we are not in charge. We are not. So
relax. Please. This is whafs been given to us. It seems all right. The food/s all right. The beds are kind of all right. Ws
what we have. And it is in this acceptance that everything can be endowed with this kind of transcendent love.

=== стр 22 ===
There is nothing more intense than definitions in
composite charts that involve these gates when they
bring electro-magnetic or compromise connections.
When we're dealing with these specific gates, we're
dealing with the deepest themes that we experience
as love, and we experience these themes of love very
specifically because each of these gates has its own
dynamic, its own unique expression.
Remember that I'm describing all of this in a very
general way to you. By going through these gates one
by one, it's truly not easy to see how in fact they operate
within the context of the chart, but this is necessary in
order to give you the background. You'll see how the
themes work, and then you'll see how they fit together
when we actually put them into the dynamic of graphs,
and how people actually meet each other in
relationships. But it's very important to understand that
it's through these seven gates that we experience what
we think of, really, as love. It's intended to be personal, and you're intended to experience this love through and with
the other at a personal level.
Of course, because there are seven gates and because of all the complexities of design and what it is to form bonds,
etc., this is not an easy process. It's not an easy process to fulfill or be fulfilled in all of these ways of personal love if
you're living out the not-self. It becomes deeply confusing as to what is really your theme and what isn't.
Remember, we're not seeing these gates in context of the body graph. We're not seeing them in the center they're in, or
whether the center is defined or not. We're not looking at their definition. We're not looking at their profile. We're not
looking at their type. In other words, we're not looking at human beings right now. We're only looking at conceptual
mechanics. So when I say that these seven gates are the core of how we experience love personally, recognize that how
they will be experienced is going to be a diversity based on how they operate within the context of your design.
You'll see that some gates that you might have in your design are going to take greater prominence for you than others.
You may have one of these personal gates in an open center that will be treated differently than if it were in a defined
center. So don't get caught up now in trying to interpret this because it can get confusing. For now, just deal with the
descriptions or the themes that are there in each of these seven forms of love.
21

=== стр 23 ===
Self Love Through Others - Gate 10 (Mundane)
The theme of the transpersonal, or the theme of the anti-mundane, in the 10th
gate is loving. Loving is actually quite easy. Loving beings are actually quite
easy, but love is never easy. The mundane of love is never easy because it's
personal and the personal brings all kinds of demands. It's very important to
see that these mundane gates pull us very, very deeply into the other. It pulls us
deeply into the other so that something is achieved through that connection.
What's there to be achieved through that connection are the themes that are
actually there.
We're going to start where we left off, with the Vessel of Love and the 10th gate,
and we're going to begin with the 10 at the mundane level. The potential of the
10th gate is the love of self: to love yourself. We've seen that the higher level
is to love being in the world, and the combination is to love being in the world
as yourself and loving that person who is in the world. Now, think about what
that means. The 10th gate is deeply individual. It's deeply individual. It is not
looking for anybody else, doesn't want anybody else, doesn't need anybody
else, but at the mundane level, somebody who has the 10th gate is waiting to
be able to discover love of themselves through the other.
22
Gate 10
This is why, so often, when somebody says to you, "I love you," it makes you
feel good. Basically, that leads to: "If they love me, maybe there is something here to love. Maybe I can begin to love
myself." Now, this is a not-self language I'm giving you. It's the way the not-self works. If you are living out your nature,
you will discover love of self, and in discovering that love of self, you're not going to be caught up at the personal level
in owing that love of self to the hope that the other will maintain their love of you.
Most of the people that I know who have the 1Oth gate in an undefined channel, whether that gate is in a defined center
or not, most of them are waiting for somebody to love them. They're waiting for somebody to love them because for
them, anybody loving them is what love is all about. It's just about being loved. Love is about being loved. The moment
that somebody loves them, they have a chance of beginning this process of thinking, "Aha! See, I'm lovable. You can
love me. Isn't that terrific!" It's like the old jokes that said Hitler must have loved his dogs and vice versa. "I'm really
good! My dogs love me!"
It is something to really think about. It is one of the basic behaviors. It's a gate of behavior, after all. It's a survival
mechanism. The way of finding perfected form, of learning how to follow your convictions, of ultimately being awake,
is that somebody loves you. The Integration being is not loveable. They don't seek love and, all of a sudden, what
they're calling in that gate on the personal level is: "Love me. Love me. Love me."
Oh, I know seduction of that. I'm a 10. It's an incredible force. The not-self gets lost, and think about that 'lost'. "I am nothing
without you. I will not survive without you. I will go to sleep and not wake up without you. I cannot follow my convictions
without you. I cannot be in the world without you." We're talking about individuality. We're talking about deep, deep
melancholy, sadness. These are beings that when they are not loved, they are in big trouble. Again, I speak of the not-self.
I've never met anybody for the first time that loved themselves, where out of the blue I meet somebody and they love
themselves. You can smell it. They don't. Whatever love they have of themselves is simply an equation based on who loves
them and how well they're loved and what kind of love they receive, and all the measurement the not-self does.

=== стр 24 ===
This gate impacts on all of humanity, impacts on our basic, basic structure as beings. It says something essential. It says
you're always going to be desperate for love on the personal level, that you're always going to try to hold on to love
that isn't good for you, and that you're going to define yourself just because the other is interested in you, all because
you do not live out who you are. And then you cannot possibly love yourself.
It's very powerful. Love on a personal basis is the deepest trap of all. This is connectivity where you really plug in, and
you can see how desperate people become. So, this 10th gate at the mundane level, this beautiful possibility of loving
yourself: recognize that in the not-self world, this is not beauty at all. This is desperation. "Please, somebody, somewhere,
love me. Let me know that I belong here in the world, that I'm okay." It's not the way we're supposed to be. That's how
the not-self survives: on this enormous lie. It's a disease.
I'm here to initiate the very core of what Integration is, to transform what love is, to finally be honest in love. I know that
it's not words. I know that it's not the message. I know that it's not the philosophy. It's the mechanics. You're never going
to love yourself unless you are you. How can you love what you don't know? How can you love what you don't live?
You can't. As long as you are that way, and it doesn't matter whether you have this gate or any other bloody gate, as
long as you live in the not-self, this is the horror of love for you.
Everything that you look at in Design is a duality. Everything is a duality. Everything is a binary. Think about the nature
of the not-self and the nature of the 10th gate and what it calls for, in terms of love. It looks upwards to the 20th gate and
it says, "I love you because you wake me up." Literally. "I love you because you wake me up. You show me who I really
am in the now." Or "I love you because without you I cannot survive. I love you because you show me that our love can
be perfect." (That's to the 57.J "I love you because you help me live out what I know is right for me to live." (To the 34.J
This is the not-self. When the not-self is dependent in that way, and that's the way it experiences the value of love with
the other, it's lost. It's lost. Yet, at the same time, you have to recognize something. If you're living out your nature, and
you have the 10th gate, you're going to meet those very same things, and they're going to be love for you. After all,
you're not going to change. Human Design is not about changing anything. It's about being aware. It's about
understanding the mechanics. Yes, you will still say, "I love you because with you I'm able to wake up and see," and
it's not a dependency.
Conditioning isn't something we're here to avoid. What we're here to avoid is entering into the world not as our selves.
The moment that we're entering into the world as the not-self, every single aspect of every single thing that I could
possibly show you is negative, but the very same thing when you're living out your nature isn't. It's actually love, as you
can experience it through these gates. It's actually, "Oh, I do love you because without you I could not survive." And it's
not, "I'm dependent on you." It's not any of that. It's, "Wow, what a miracle! Isn't that great! I'm so glad that you're here
with me on this trip because it would have been tough without you, and I'm sure, in turn, I'm doing something for you."
And of course, that's always true.
You see, it's not about the thing. It's about you and everybody's design. Everybody is living out either one side or the
other of what is truth. You can live the truth of the not-self. It is the maya. It is what people live. We all know the pain of
rhul, bur il':, nOllike you're going to erase it. It's not like you're going to chonge the woy you work, you think, you move.
It isn't. All it's going to do is that if you're following your strategy, you're going to act correctly according to whom you
are, and according to what you are. If you're a 10th gate and you're acting correctly and somebody enters into your
life through those connections, that's a really nice love. Powerful connection. Oh, there are many variations, but it's not
a problem. Only the not-self suffers, only the not-self.
23

=== стр 25 ===
24
This is the thing to understand about every gate and every theme and everybody's design. I'm the same son of a bitch
I've always been. I'm just myself now. I'm natural at it. It's normal. It's clean. It's just me. The thing that made me that way
before and the thing that makes me this way now is the same thing, but now, before I'm a real son of a bitch, I inform
people beforehand, and I have a different life. I don't fry them as badly as I used to. It's not about me saying, "Oh, you
shouldn't be like that. Be a good boy" That's not me. What am I going to do? Go into my design with an eraser and
start taking out channels?
Everybody thinks there is something to change. No, no, no, no, no! There's something to be. There's just something to
be. Be you, and then you get to see that all of those things that you didn't like, that everybody else didn't like, those
things that made you uncomfortable, those things that made you feel empty, those things that made it all seem pointless:
the other side of it is just there waiting.
When you're yourself, you see differently. You see differently. The not-self is always so busy trying to hold on. It's always
so busy juggling its life. It's always so busy carrying the burden of being in the world. That's what the not-self does. The
moment that you're living out who you are, there's no burden. What burden? I don't have to worry about what's going
to happen in the next ten minutes. I don't have to be responsible for that. I'm not responsible for you. This is just what's
happening. The moment you take away that burden is the moment that you begin to see, "Ah, I'm actually equipped to
move through this plane. II
This is my world. This is my life in this world and I belong here. The moment I stop interfering, my life comes out. It's you
that comes out. I'm a better son of a bitch today than I've ever been. It pleases me no end. I would never want to get rid
of it. Be an awake lover, be an awake killer, be an awake anything, but at least be awake. It's not about morality. It's
not about the good and the bad and the right and the wrong of all of it. It's all there. It's always there. It's just about
seeing that what you are can be correct and the moment it's correct, the morality all disappears. The burden disappears.
All the nonsense disappears.
I know where it all begins. That's my work. I know. It doesn't begin in all this knowledge and the profundity of Design.
It doesn't. It just begins with you being you. It begins with just living a strategy. Nothing else. If somebody comes into
my life and I can breathe that into them in a moment, I can just give them the strategy. If I never see them for the next 40
years, ah, the things they could tell me. All the things I could have taught them, they will tell me because they all know.
There is such wisdom, such unique perspective in each of you. Here I am laying out road maps, but all the maps are in
you. There isn't anything that I can touch that you do not know. It's all there.
The moment that you just let go and just be you, you see how perfect it is. This is the perfection of form. That's what
loving yourself does. It perfects your form. It is the perfection of survival. You can't feel good in the world if you're
always afraid you're going to die. You can't feel good in the world where every moment you're worried about what
you're going to eat. The moment that you're correct within yourself, all of that is there. It's just there. It's all given. It's all
around.
It's like beauty. It's everywhere. You just have to be able to see it. You have to see your own beauty, and what you have
to see is that every single aspect that you have, let it be. Let it be. It's you, after all. When you're correct and you let it
be, you see what it's there for, and then you don't have to be fooled and in pain in love. You don't have to be dependent
in love. And you don't have to think of yourself as only a reflection of somebody else's love. You are love. You're it.
You're the most perfect example of you that you can be.

=== стр 26 ===
Successful Love - Gate 44
The 44th gate is the love of talent. Well, let me describe to you the quality of
love in the 44th gate as the not-self. That quality of love is, "I love you because
we're a success." Most often it's deeply connected, in our context, to material,
money, wealth, and so forth.
Everything about this stream that operates from the 54th gate and moves all
the way up to the ego, everything about this side of the tribe is that the tribe
thrives on having financial success. Any tribe that doesn't have financial success,
then everybody begins to suffer, and so this is a love in which success is
nourished. "I couldn't be a success without you," the not-self says.
But it brings a fundamental dilemma because it's a very, very essential element
in the way in which the tribe operates, which means in the way in which
marriage operates. It is the lament of the housewife, and a legitimate one. In
the traditional, general way in which households operate, where males are
breadwinners and females are working in the home, there is this relationship
to money that is always a problem. One person is making it and the other one
isn't, in that sense. Now, this channel feeds all of that, and of course, what
happens in this channel is, "If it weren't for me you wouldn't have anything. If
Gate 44
it weren't for me, look at the kind of life that you'd be living." In other words,
this channel carries all kinds of problems in love that are rooted in money, and are rooted in the control of money: who's
got the money and how is it going to work.
Now again, remember, for the not-self this is standard. It's standard that the wealth that is being generated belongs to
one, and so you end up with all the psychological, financial, legal and all of those dilemmas that take place. In most
of the world, women aren't even allowed to own property, let alone be considered the ones responsible for taking in the
money, and this is all about whether or not the family, the tribe, is going to thrive. Success is what it's all about. Now,
think about how awful that is to the not-self.
But see what that's like as the true self. We can't be a success without the other. You enter into a relationship correctly
and you enter into a relationship through this door of love, and it is about talent. Whether that talent is the ability to be
supportive in the home in order for the outside work to be successful, or whether the outside work is successful only
because of the partner and its quality, whatever all those stories can be, it ends up being a shared wealth. It ends up
being a shared program. There is no longer a differentiation. In other words, there is an acceptance of the inevitably
and the value of the geometry.
Just as that 10th gate, when it's awake, can say, "It is because of you that I can find my form," and there is no negative
in that, in the same way the 44 can say, "It is because of you that I find success," and there is no dependency in that.
There i5 only the potential beauty of that shared experience, that quality of love, to love succeeding. The hardest thing
to do in the west (this is different with different cultures) is to stay together when you're poor. It's very difficult to be poor
as a couple, particularly couples with children. There is an enormous pressure. This is where all that exists. It's one of
the basic themes.
25

=== стр 27 ===
26
The theme is that until we are as ourselves, which means we bond with the other correctly, only then do we become one
thing. Then "that's mine and that's yours" stops. It stops, and you get to the magic of what is always possible in the
tribe, where you can really say, "It's ours. Look at how well we did. Look at how well we've done." In other words, it
takes on a plural transcendent quality. But because most of the world operates in the not-self, this is a love that's very,
very painful. This is a place where there are all kinds of slavery, not generator slavery, but other kinds of slavery: paid
slaves who are controlled through the nature of money.
It is very important to see that we have themes of love that are really about different things. Remember, it's mundane. I
can get very exalted about the 10th gate because it always carries that transcendent quality regardless that it has a
mundane aspect. But when I come to the 44th gate, this is mundane. See, wealth does improve love. It doesn't mean
that if you're rich, you automatically love. That's not the point. It makes everything easier. It takes away certain
pressures, and because all of us bond genetically, we are always looking for the best possible mate. When you're
looking for a mate here, you're looking towards your future and you're looking towards movement, success and growth
so that, materially, you appreciate your relationship or bond with the other.
When we were looking at the 10th gate, we were looking at identity love: the G center, the center of identity. Here in
the 44th gate we're looking at the splenic system. That's the body's immune system. This is your health system. It's a very
healthy kind of love.
The 44th gate is a deep fear: the fear is the past. The deepest fear of the past is the recognition that all things pass.
Species disappear. Tribes disappear. Things get wiped out, and they get wiped out when they lose their talent. The
nurturing of new talent, the bringing about of success, is the most important thing for the continuing of our well-being.
It's very, very healthy, and it's healthy in a primary sense that basically, as a binary, only one of us needs to put in an
enormous energy on the outside. The strong must bond with the weak. This is the law of genes. If the strong doesn't
bond with the weak then we're never going to end up with a specie that survives. We won't.
One of the things to see very clearly is that, though it sounds strange, the reality is that if you enter into this kind of
relationship correctly, this kind of love correctly, that it's enormously healthy. It does bring success and that's what the
bond is for. The success itself creates an aura of love. It just does. A sense of well done. A sense of avoiding the fears
of the past. That sense of being able to move successfully into the future.

=== стр 28 ===
Earning Love - 40th Gate
Gate 40
That's me. I have the 40th gate. I have it in a defined ego. It goes straight to my
throat. I know that thing. I know it, and the not-self me, oh, wow, that was a
trip! "Hey, I'm doing it all, you'd better pay some attention to me. I'm putting
the meat on the table, honey." And now it's very funny. It's just very funny. It's
a mechanism. Half the time, when I think about all the work... I don't have to
work. I don't have to be here today. Truly I don't. Human Design has looked after me. I don't have to be here. My only
excuse is, well, I'm doing it for my family. That's in me all the time. I'm working for them. I call myself the mule. I'm
working for them. The only difference is, I don't tell them that anymore. I used to tell them in the past. I would tell them,
"I'm doing all this for you." I mean, I'm an ego: I do it because I do it, because I do it, because I do it. There is no
Splenic love is very different from ego love. When you get to the 40th gate,
you get to ego love, and the 40th gate is the gate of the stomach. This is the
ego. This is the center of will power, and the 40th gate says, very clearly, "1'm
doing all this for you, so you'd better love me. I bought you that toy; you'd
better love me. I'm doing all this work for you, so you'd better love me." Very
different from the 44.
The 44 says, "Look, I'm looking for somebody to be successful with," and the
40 is waiting for somebody to pull that out of them. That 40 is just waiting for
somebody to work for so they can earn love. It's a very funny concept. They're
going to earn it. "Look at what I'm doing for you: I'm slaving 18 hours a day,
and it's all for you. You'd better love me! Show me lots of affection, feed my
stomach, take care of me, tell me I'm wonderful, give me a gold watch, the
whole movie. Love me because I'm doing it all for you."
reason.
You can see what a trap that is. This is the channel of community. This is the family. This is the real bond. "1 do it all for
you, so you'd better love me." The world is filled with the not-self. Think about all these not-self 40th gates. Think about
how they treat all those people. Think about it. I know. I've been there. I know what that looks like, how humiliating that
is. My father must have been one because I remember him saying to me one day, "You owe me/' and I thought, "You're
fucking crazy! I owe you nothing." It was like, you telling me I owe you! Give me a break!
But I understand that mechanism, and to see that in the not-self, what that does in the family! The 40/37 is the
family; this is the way we live with each other, the way we live with our children, and you can see what kind of a
theme of love this is. If it's not clean, it's never clean. I live out my nature, so I 'mule', and I find the natural love that
comes with that. It's a different kind of love. It's an appreciation. It's not gratitude. It's just an appreciation. When I
give something to one of my children (I'm very generous to themL rather than them getting the vibes of, "1 had to
work so hard to go into that store to buy this thing for you, and you'd better love me/' instead, I just simply give it
and there is kind of, "Oh, yea that's great." And off they go. There's no real thank you, and there's no ordeal.
When the not-self 40 is ready to give you something, you have to learn every genuflection on earth.
I'm describing two gates of tribal love themes, and they're all about money. They're all about work, and love is caught
up in it. It just is. If you're not clear in yourself and you don't see the game, it can be very painful. You can feel very
uncomfortable. It's not healthy. It's just not healthy. I can't get rid of the 40 in me, but because I live out what I am, it
27

=== стр 29 ===
28
doesn't come out negatively. It's there. I can never escape that inside of my psyche. I can never escape the fact that
every time I have to get on an airplane-and I hate them, I've taken hundreds and hundreds and hundreds, and I hate
them-and there I am, "I'm doing this for my family." There's that 40 and boy! They'd better love me for it.
You can't escape what you are but you can be correct in it, and it doesn't become something that is pain for the other.
It doesn't become something where you seek some kind of vengeance or revenge. All of these things get mixed up.
Family bonds, tribal love: heavy business. So, recognize this gate. Oh, it's so mundane. It's so mundane and yet, it is
so important for us. You see, it's just another expression of love, after all. I enjoy being a mule. Beyond my family, I
enjoy having people who work for me that I pay. This is the 40th gate in me. It's that part of me that I'm a deliverer. It's
the gate of deliverance. I'm providing. I'm doing my job.
The ultimate of that, for the 40th gate, is just respect, but this is one of those things with love that is always a trade-off.
In the not-self, there is all this material stuff: you owe me, and you should have, and look what I did for you, and on and
on and on and on. It distorts the way we can be with each other. If you ever get a mule like me in your life, you can
appreciate it without paying a price, and out of that comes a unique kind of love. Each of these is a unique aspect of
love. They're not love, remember. They're aspects of it.
The burden of life has to be carried, and there are those who are equipped to carry it. So let them carry it. I can keep
my promises; this is what it is to be an ego being. They can take on the burden. They're designed for it. But then it all
gets caught up in all this funny stuff the moment that you distort it, the moment that you're not real, the moment that
you're not living out who you are.
Ego love is about connectivity. Think about that 40th gate. That 40th gate sitting in the ego center will not do any work
if it can avoid it. Egos are like that. It will not do any work it can avoid. Egos don't like to work. Sacrals work. The ego
has a great power, will power, that can drive it, but how much that ego will apply its will is directly related to the quality
of love it gets. If you've got the 40th gate and you're a deliverer and you're there to deliver, you're there to provide, how
much you can provide and how well you provide is exactly relative, exactly equal to the quality of love you have for
those that you're going to provide for.
If you don't like your partner and you're not crazy about your children, you're not going to be a great provider. You
won't. You'll pretend there's other things you have to work for, and you don't have to work for them. All of a sudden,
they start getting less and less and less. If you are somebody who is a 40th gate and you're correct and you meet what's
correct for you, it's going to bring out your true potential to provide. Remember, this is family and tribe. It's not about just
providing for your partner or your family, and by the way, it doesn't matter whether that's male or female how that role
is played. It's not just about providing for them. The power of the 40th gate is that, by working for others, in other
words, doing it for them, it goes far beyond them. It ends up building the mechanisms of what we call capitalism. They
end up making that bigger and bigger and bigger and bigger, and it just keeps on growing and growing because the
ego is not just simply about work. It's about rest.
I'm a perfect ego being. I worked like a damn mule for 15 years and now I'm going to lie on the beach for the rest of
my life. To hell with you. You know, I did it all for you. (The 40 game: "I did it all for you. I did it for you. I worked so
hard for all of you."j Now I'm going to rest; now you work for me. It just gets bigger and bigger. It's the way that it goes.
This is what the 40 is all about. This is how you build the tribe.
It's how you build the wealth of the tribe. But you've got to have somebody to love. If you don't have somebody to love
you've got nobody to work for. No will power. Will power is love. Will power is driven by love. If there is no love,
there's nothing to do. I sat still for years. Nothing to do. Nobody to look after. Didn't earn any money for seven years.

=== стр 30 ===
Nothing to love. There was no one. There was nobody to look after, nobody to care for. I had abandoned everybody.
40th gate. And then all of a sudden, the moment that there's somebody to love, this gate just takes on its natural
tendency. "I'll look after it. I'll take care of it. I'll do it."
I enjoy the beauty of romance, but it doesn't bring us to acceptance of what love really is. All the different variations of
love that I know, that I know through the knowledge, that I know through experiencing myself and seeing the jokes (I
enjoy laughing at myself.), I see that love is so deeply, deeply complex. It is deeply complex because there are so many
different themes that are at work. We're always trying to lump them all together. What do you mean love and money?
What are you talking about? What is that? We have to see that it's part of it. It's part of it. You see, the moment that
you're correct and you meet somebody who is going to mule for you and you're correct, you can just enjoy it. You can
just enjoy it. How nice that you can have somebody mule for you. You'll have to pay your own price on the other side.
It can just be accepted.
The being that lives that out within themselves, doesn't then have to put that burden on the other, because that's the road
to guilt. This is how you create enormous guilt: "Look at what I've done for you, and look at what you give me in return.
I dedicate my life to teaching you how to be awake, and there you, are fast asleep." What kind of love is that? It's the
way it works.
There are all kinds of love. There are just all kinds of love. When you're correct you get to experience those aspects in
yourself, and you see not only the beauty of it but the humor. It's pretend, after all. It's not real love. It's humor. It's funny.
Whenever I get that flash that I'm doing everything for the world, my ego messiah complex, "Look at what I'm doing for
the world/' I break out into laughter. I also sweat at the same time. I don't want that movie.
This is a 40th gate talking. "Look at what I'm doing for everybody." Because I'm me, there's this, "Oh, isn't that funny."
Imagine all these people living out that trip for real and believing it! I'm a choiceless being. I'm helpless. I'm incompetent.
I'm not in charge of anything. All of this is happening to me. It's hilarious. It's one of the funniest movies that I can
imagine, being dragged through this movie. And there are all these funny things that make me who I am. They're really
okay. I see them for what they are, and I'm not confused by them. I also get to enjoy them, to see how we work, how
that mechanism works.
The joke, of course, is that the ego only knows it's in love when it's working for somebody. But that's another story.
I have four of these gates. All of you will see the combinations that you have, and the way it works. When we go
through charts I'm going to show you how the other side works. That is, what it means to be the other side of one of
these gates and what happens in the meeting of all of that. But I want you to understand the complexity of that.
When I look at my four gates of love, three of them are part of my single definition. Those are the ones that are active all the
time. One is not. Together, I have to see them as a whole because I can't just look at that 40th gate. Yes, that's an aspect of
love for me, and that aspect of love needs to be fulfilled in my process, and it is when I'm correct. But I also have other
aspects that have to be seen, and again, they will have to be seen in the context of what I am as a whole. For somebody
who is a 5/1, for somebody who is a heretic, who is a manifestor, whose job it is to do this, having the 40th gate in the
sense that I'm doing this work for... You know, I always used to say, "I do this for the forces. I work for the forces. I'm doing
it for them." My inside joke was, "If you don't, they'll kill you so you'd better do it." It's my inside joke. I'm working for you
because if I don't, you're going to take my life and I know that, so I'm going to work for you, and I'm going to do a good
job, thank you very much. And one day, you'll give me a biscuit and a cookie and send me away.
29

=== стр 31 ===
30
There are all these themes that are inside. Again, I want you to see: this is a process in which love for us is a very
complex thing. That's why we have all these mysteries about it. But when you see each of these basic themes, and you
see them in yourself or you see them in those that are around you, you can begin then to understand not only how it
works, but you can begin to transform it. Transform it by being yourself, and not being afraid to be you. I don't mind
when those things move through me and that kind of thought process is there inside of me. It's natural for me. I don't take
it seriously. I know I'm not in charge of life, my life or anybody else's.
I know that whatever happens is a geometry that is deeply, deeply, deeply, deeply, choiceless. I know all that. But in the
costume of what it is to be this man, in the illusion of the Maya of the play that I live, all of those things are very much
alive, and they make up what it is that's me. See, I know people don't know how to love because they don't really know
what it is. They don't know what it is within them. Love is something that is extraordinary because it is so beyond us. The
moment that you're really living out your nature, the moment that you're just following your strategy, those aspects of
you become refined. You begin to connect precisely to the right kind of energy.
When I had my experience in Ibiza, I was surrounded by many sanyasans, and many of the sanyasans that were
around me at that time were 40/37's, and many of them were just 37's. And here I am, the 40. Here I am this huge,
bloody, drugged out freak who had a weird experience, and there's all these 37's coming up to me and hooking into
my design saying, "I think you should work for me. I think you should start being responsible for working for me."
Really. The muling was spiritual. You know, "Do your work: you start working with this." I had a 37 come and give me
money and tell me go write a book. "Go start working for us." Really, go start working for us.
You get to see that for each and everyone of these aspects that you have, there are forces in your life all the time that
are hitting on them. Constantly hitting on them. And when you're correct, you really get to be able to pick and choose.
You get to see precisely what is correct for you and you get rid of the other stuff. I don't have anything to do with the 58.
I'm not looking for perfection in love. It's not my business. It has nothing to do with me. But there have been many times
in my life where when relationships would fail, there would be this part of me that would think, "Ah, if only!" It's not me.
It has nothing to do with me. I'm here to be the good mule that loves himself, and everything is okay then. You know,
that's me. I'm not here to find perfection. The perfect love is never going to happen to me.
See, when you get to be yourself, the nicest thing is you get rid of all this stuff you don't have to carry around. You don't
have to worry about it. You don't have to look for it. You don't have to think it's a problem because it's not there. You can
just suddenly begin to resonate to what is really okay and correct for you and feels good. It feels good. "I'm getting on
this plane for all of you. It gives me a sense of feel-good inside." And I don't tell anybody. I don't have to anymore. I
don't have to look for that attention, because I've never said that to any of you. It's not natural for me to say that now.
It's not natural for me for that to come up. But it's me. It's in there. You know, when I close the door at night, "Look at what
I did for them today!" It's in there. It passes through because it's me. And it's love.
You see, it's just love. You need me to mule for you. So I find love. I never found love until I became a teacher of Human
Design. I had no idea. I don't mean knowing my design. I mean, being a teacher of Human Design. I suddenly met all
kinds of people who are connecting to all these aspects of love in me and I suddenly realized that there was really a
loving person in here. You know, I'd spent most of my life in a little, narrow shell, and suddenly, being myself, all of a
sudden there are all these different qualities, all these different capacities for love I never knew. Didn't know they were
there. Didn't know they were me. And also, those things that weren't me just fell away. It's a beautiful experience. I hope
you get to know that.

=== стр 32 ===
Perfecting Love - Gate 58
We continue our journey in looking at the themes of mundane love with the
58th gate. It's got such a nice name, the 58th gate: the Joyous. Very nice.
There are all kinds of love. This is the deepest, deepest, deepest memory of
love that humanity carries. See, on the other side of the 58th gate is the 18th
gate and the 18th gate is the source of all challenge, and that challenge is
mother and father. The 18th gate is the place of mother and father. It's the
place of challenging the archetypes of the mother and father, of male and
female.
Built into us is an ancient, ancient love that is built on the continuity of what it
is to be human, for the miracle of the male to be born out of the female. The
first shock that human consciousness had to deal with. When you see a female
come out of the female, that's really quite normal. I mean, they're similar. It
seems okay. But I've watched males come out of a female body, and I must
say, that's really a shock. It's like, oh, wait a minute now. There's something to
this, you know. We know biologically that the male is a mutation of the female
anyway, and that basically that we all begin yin. It is a fact that male is a
mutation, that yang is a mutation out of the female, that we have a constant
challenge to our archetypes.
Gate 58
The 58th gate is not about finding perfect love. That would be terrific, but the not-self of the 58th gate is creating, out
of correction and challenge, perfect love. "You could be a better lover, dear. Let me tell you how. You could be a better
husband/wife. Let me tell you how, and let me tell you how all the time. And when I can tell you how to become a better
partner all the time, I'm in love with you." I'm so glad I don't have any of this. Not to say there is anything wrong with
it. There isn't, but you have to recognize that there are all kinds of love. Whenever I meet people who have the 18 or
the 58, I know that they're always taking that love deeply, deeply, deeply personal. And the fact that they see what
doesn't work, what could be fixed, what could be better, all of those things, because they're not-self, because they're
unhappy, it leads to the destruction of a relationship that has enormous potential. Enormous potential.
Just as there is love to be able to provide for others, there is love that comes from succeeding with others, and there is
love that comes through being corrected by others. It's real. For so many people it's very uncomfortable, mostly because
it's collective, and of course, that challenge is meant to be a larger challenge to the community as a whole, women's
liberation. The female archetype has a right to be respected, has a right to anything that is available in our world as
humans. That's collective correction of the archetype. That's great. Keep on carrying the signs and keep on complaining;
keep on demanding because it's correct.
But the moment that becomes personal, and after all, this is a mundane, personal gate of love, so it's so hard not to
make it personal. It's so hard not to take it personally. It's not the negative that you have to hold on to. It's the potential
of the positive. I've lived with an 18/58 for 20 years, and I'm somebody who is very correct and I'm never perfect. I will
never be perfect. Never, ever, ever, ever be perfect. You'd be astonished at how many things I'm reminded I do wrong
all the time. I will never be perfect.
And I have nothing to do with it. It has nothing to do with me. Before I was awake, I hated it. I hated it. It's not me. I
hated this challenge, all the time, endlessly. They can't help it. It's their way of loving. It's their way of demonstrating
31

=== стр 33 ===
32
love. They're helpless. "You're a jerk, and I'm telling you because I love you." Thank you very much! But it's true. That's
exactly what they mean. Only when you're awake can you take that. Only when you're awake can you allow that to
be something that's not personal, and the moment that it's not personal, they're good.
Walk into a room, like this place where the nuns work so hard keeping it clean. Let me walk through here with a couple
of 18/58's. They will show you so much dirt. They will find it in every corner, in every place. It's everywhere. They'll
catch every drop. If you're not awake, you don't want somebody showing you that you're not clean. You don't.
So this is a very, very difficult way of love, and it's one of the ways of love in which there are the most problems in
relationships. The most problems. This business of transforming and correcting the other: how powerful that is as a
conditioning force and how much resistance that meets.
Some kinds of love are indispensable for all of us. The 58th gate is part of the Cross of Service. It provides a deep,
deep, deep, deep service to all of us. You see, the stream that operates out of the 58 and goes up the body graph and
ends up in the 16th gate in the throat is the logical process that meets the talents and skills. This is all about experimentation.
We have no reliable future without experimentation. We can't just allow people to say, well, the pattern is going to work
like this and this and this, without some kind of proof. The only way that we're secure about the way we can move into
the future is that logic provides us with patterns and proves them, experiments with them. It shows us, through
experimentation, that this is a direction we can go in the future that is going to keep us sofe, going to keep us
productive, successful whatever it may be: the whole collective drive.
At the deepest mystical level, you have to see that being a human, and being a human in love is the ultimate experiment.
It's the ultimate experiment. You see, for me, through the 58th gate is love that proves the strength of love. That's what
it's about. It's love that proves the strength of love. It's about the mutual acceptance of the experiment. There's a very fine
line here, and that fine line is the difference between being awake and being the not-self. The world is not-self and this
does not function properly. It doesn't. It is only a negative program in the not-self. It is the negative of discomfort with the
lack of perfection, the disease of endless dissatisfaction without that being exalted. You can have exalted dissatisfaction.
That's okay. That is, you can be awake and you can recognize that logic never ends, and proving things never stops,
and there's always new experiments, so no way to be satisfied. Be the 98-year-old guitar player and still not be satisfied
with your notes. That's its beauty. This is the way of providing us with the real future we need.
Now, think about it. The basis of the real future we need is for the binary to come together and allow something to
happen. We have a problem with the not-self because that's conditioning. When the 58th gate not-self says you should
be this, you should be that, it's not correct. It's not correct. It's never correct. They're not living out their true nature. Yet,
the moment that you're living out who you are, if you are living with somebody who is living who they are, and you
correct them because that's your natural tendency, it actually works. It's not conditioning. It's improvement. It's improvement
for the other, not for the person who sees it. It's not for their benefit.
Remember, this is for the collective, but the collective has all these little components, and the not-self cannot do that
without wanting it for themselves. "0h god, finally he's opening the window right," or whatever the hell it is. Finally! It's
always, "for me, for me, for me. II That's the not-self. And it's not.
You see, this is the great love of the experiment of being us and proving that it's worthwhile to be us, and proving that
we can get along with each other. Proving we can love each other, to let everybody know that it is possible. And to
improve the techniques for it. Do you know how many books are on the market to teach people how to be better
partners to the other? This is the 58 trying to get out there, trying to show us, "Yes, don't worry, I know you hate your

=== стр 34 ===
man, but it's okay. Read this book. It's all going to get better." These magazines with articles on how to be a better lover:
what to do and what not to do. This is all the 58 trying to make it better, trying to prove.
Everybody thinks 58's are bitches, or bastards, or whatever because they're constantly challenging. But you see, this is
magic. They're the only ones that have the power to challenge the status quo. They're the ones that can see that
refinement is possible. They're the ones who know that. The beauty of that is that when they are themselves, they will
correct you out of love, because they love you, not because they need something for themselves. And that's the
difference. That's when it becomes what it was always meant to be: the ultimate logical talent (not the abstract talent),
of how to live with another human being.
This is us, on the way. It is what Human Design does. It changes the way you deal with other human beings. Takes away
certain pressures. Takes away certain tensions. Takes away certain questions. It begins to strip away the mundane that
blocks us from just being with each other. So much of all these gates of love are only experienced in their negative,
where the pain is, because that's how the not-self functions, and this channel has a bad reputation. It has a strong
negative reputation. "1 don't want that all the time, somebody constantly pointing out what needs to be this or that or the
other." They're not appreciated. They're not respected. And their love is not embraced.
You see, of all the gates of love, the 58 has the hardest time showing its love because that love is always colored with
those challenges. It's part of the love. The not-self doesn't understand that, and so it makes it very difficult for them to feel
that they are able to love properly. Very difficult.
Dreams of Love - Gate 41
Love and sex: there you have something you have to deal with. All the gates of
love that we've been looking at have had nothing to do with sex. Nothing. All
these gates of love, obviously, operate in many ways; it's not just about your
lover, your child, friend, colleague, whatever the case may be, but these are
not gates that carry within them deep sexual themes.
When you come to the mirror of the 58 and you come to the 41 st gate, this is
about the love of dreams. This is where the problem is. (I'll just be cute.) The
41 st gate is the initiating codon. It's where everything begins. The 41 st gate
initiates the human experiential way. Logic says love is an experiment, being
human is an experiment that is perfected, and out of that come therapies,
philosophies, all kinds of things.
The abstract says love is an experience, and love is an experience that includes
sex, and love and sex, from the beginning, are bound together. The 41 st gate,
then, infects all other forms of love. Only the 41st gate says that love and sex
are together, which is why they can end up being such disasters, because it's
always in there. This is the great gate of the pressure to desire. To desire.
Where the logic says, "1 want to experience to perfect it," the abstract says, "1
just want it to feel it. I want to feel it. I want to experience it, and I can't
experience love without sex."
Gate 41
33

=== стр 35 ===
34
That's the pressure. Because it's the human experiential way, it's taken on that value for just about everything that we
think about when we think about love with the other, other than our children. It's always there. It's always there. One
of the most difficult things in the world is to love somebody of the opposite sex and have no sex. It is one of the most
difficult things to receive. Very difficult. It's nobody's fault. It's the 41 st gate. It says, "You want to be human? Love is
fucking. Through fucking you find love. Want to be human? That's the way you're human." And we know because
it's going to feel good maybe you will stay with it long enough to make some more.
But it's only the 41 st gate that says that. It's the only one. It screams it all the time. "No, no, there is no love without
sex. There's no sex without love." It's all mixed up in the 41 . This is us. It's our human experiential way. I have four
gates of love. Three of them are part of definitions. I have the 40th gate, the 25th gate, and the 10th gate. And
then, hanging off in my undefined root, is this 41 . Now, it's not me. I've learned to see that, but oh, boy, did that
ever rule my not-self life. Every time I made love to somebody I assumed it was love. This was the mechanism of the
41, all caught up together.
One day, this too shall pass because this stream, one day, will be gone and we, as a specie, as an overall evolutionary
track, will not be ruled by desire and expectation. But desire and expectation is ruling us all, whether you have this or
not. Because the 41 st gate is the initiator of everything that it is to be human, we are caught in this dilemma of this catch
between love and sex, and it's very hard to put those two things together. Always.
So we have a stream that leads to crisis. We have a stream that leads to sexual talent. We have a stream that is nothing
but expectation, and all of us are caught up in that movie. All of us. And yet, for most of us, that's not what love is. It's
not what love is to me. It isn't. It has nothing to do with it. When I was going mad and I was deconstructing, I went
without sex for many, many years. Not ruled by desire. Just living the transcendent qualities of love that are inherent in
me. To find myself, to love the totality, not to have to work because there was nobody to love. No desire. There was no
desire. As I've stepped back into the world from there, I see this disease of desire destroying love. Destroying love.
Again, I'm talking about the not-self. That's not what this gate is about when you're awake. I'm talking about the not-self
because that's the world out there, and desire kills love.
We're caught in a trap of thinking that if you desire, that's what you love, because that's the 41's game. I love people
in ways they can't imagine, and my love for them carries enormous power, but it doesn't carry any sex. It doesn't carry
any desire. Oh, yeah, there's part of me that will, but you see, that kind of love, to know that love with the other, I'd
rather know the love in all of the other 6 gates than what sits there in the 41, because I know that movie. I know how
distorting that is. You begin to think that that's what love is, and it's not. You don't have to feel it. You feel it if you're
meant to feel it. But if you're not meant to feel love, there's other ways. There are all these other mechanisms that are
there.
I hate generalizations, and this is the generalization that disturbs all of us in our relationships. You see, most human
relationships are not designed to be successful sexually. The person that you bond with, the person that your geometry
brings you together with, they're not bringing you together because of a sexual dynamic. You're brought together
through gates of love, and only one has anything to do with sex. So we end up with enormous dilemmas in relationships
where the quality of the intimacy and the quality of the sexuality is determining the level of love. We have all these
people that are all concerned in relationships about what's happened to their intimacy.
Anybody that's ever been in a relationship knows that when the honeymoon is over, the honeymoon is over. There's all
this other love and it's beautiful. It's just not Hollywood. It just isn't. It isn't that burning, screaming, rockets going off,
and it's going to be like that every day forever. Give me a break. It's like people who say, "Love thy neighbor." Give me

=== стр 36 ===
a break! I've lived with too many women too long to know that that's simply not true. It's not true. And the desire kills the
love because it diminishes all the other loves.
Oh, I've got a problem with the 41 st gate. I know this movie. I was conditioned through this movie. All my life, people
with adrenaline power conditioning my 41 st gate: oh, I've seen that. And me, with my coolness and my stand back,
how they would keep on telling me that I don't love them because I didn't give them the desire they wanted, and so I
could not, in their eyes, actually be giving them love. You see, desire in that way, in the not-self, just kills love.
I find all of this very funny and I enjoy the jokes along the way. I think that the 41 has the best love joke of all. It's the
gate of dreams. If you look at its parallel on the other side you're looking at the 58th gate and you're looking at
perfection. We've already seen the difficulty of the acceptance of that kind of love because you accept being improved.
You accept criticism as part of the expression of love of the 58 that you're meeting.
When you come to the other side, the 41, the love that you can receive is not a love that will embody the fantasy or the
desire for the kind of love or the kind of sex that you really want. But it is a love that allows you to fantasize. For these
beings, when they are awake, it is the love that they meet that allows them to fantasize about the loves and the sex that
they can't have. That's why we have a world filled romance novels, pornography, you name it, however you want to
display it, anyway that you want to show it. It's all out there, and it's all out there for the people that are in their
experiential relationship, because to be human and go down the road, you do it with somebody else.
It's only the not-self that turns the 35/36 into sexual talent. Only the not-self. The true self goes down the road with
somebody and dreams a lot about this and about that. They're not here to prove anything. This is not an experiment. It's
an experience. Within the 41 st gate is the capacity to fantasize at a level that makes Hollywood really out of date
because the depth and quality of that fantasy is so real that your body physically reacts to it.
Human beings find all that embarrassing, and they don't necessarily like the idea that their partner fantasizes about
what's possible somewhere else, with someone else, or something else. Whatever it is. I'm a 41. I can imagine
anything. I mean anything. You name it. I've imagined stuff that doesn't exist, and all the time that I'm doing that, I have
stable love.
There are all kinds of love. I love my fantasies much more than the reality. Fantasies are wonderful, and it doesn't mean
there is anything missing. I can have whatever I want. I'm a manifestor. I can just go take it. There's nothing missing. Like
the 58th gate, it can be a joy. It's like going to a movie. It's like putting on your favorite CD, and there it is, part of the
magic of being us. It doesn't mean there's something wrong in your relationship. In the same way when the 58 says to
you, "Clean your nose," it doesn't mean they don't love you.
You know, when we become mature, as humans waking up, we get to see that all of these things are all right and are
natural. They're okay. All of them can be fulfilling. All of them can bring us the love we need, but it's about being
ourselves. It's about entering into things correctly, and then it's okay because no true partner that you will have in this
life will ever fulfill the possibility of what could be love. The possibility of what could be sex. No partner. Ever. It's just
reality. Here in the human experiential way, there's a way to compensate. It's the way you compensate: "I don't have it
'Iere 011 Ihis plal1e, bur oh, boy do I hove it here." And leave me alone right now.
The only person who will let you do that is somebody who loves you. It is about love, and it's about seeing we're
human. We have all these mechanisms. They're at work. Because we are not-self, we fear them. We abuse them, or are
abused by them. We have the morality saying this is good, that's bad; this is right, that's wrong. It should be like this.
35

=== стр 37 ===
36
It must be like that. It's not true. It's going to be what it's going to be if you're correct: what you will resonate to, what
is correct for you. And then you can feel good in what it is to be you and enjoy love. Enjoy it for what it is, and enjoy
it for what works for you. Not what you think is missing.
It's the joke of the 41, you know, sitting with its fantasies. But only the not-self gets sucked into that and what that
brings: chaos after chaos after chaos. It's collective; it's not personal. You're not personally loving anybody. You're
not personally fucking anybody. You're having an experience. How are you supposed to translate that into love?
You're not even thinking about the person. You're in the experience. It's only the experience that matters. That's what
desire is.
And back there in the root of it, as the awake being, is this ability to transcend that, to turn it into the most impersonal
perfection of love possible. That's what fantasy is. After all, when you fantasize, you create the perfection. It's all
exactly the way you like. It's all exactly the way you want it. It's wonderful, isn't it? That's the magic given to us. It's a
way of love that's given to us.
By the way, we all share the same fantasy. We're all in the same program. That kind of love is transcendent. It's out there
in what people used to call the astral. We're all connecting in those realms. Oh, it's really alive. It's just different, and
it's different when you're awake. One day, if I have the time, I will write an I'Ching for awake people instead of the one
we have now, which is for the sleepers, because it's different. It's different when you're awake.
The 58 and the 41 are mirrors. The 58 says, "I love you. You're imperfect. I'm going to correct you, and the 41 says,
"I love you. You're imperfect. I'm going to fantasize about somebody else!"

=== стр 38 ===
Love and Purpose - Gate 28
As we come to the last two gates of love, you'll notice that we have moved
from two tribal gates of love to two collective gates. We started with individual
in integration, and we're closing with two individual gates. Remember the
nature of individuality: individuality is the mutative force in us. It is individuality
that carries with it, unlike other circuitry, a very unique chemistry: the chemistry
that we call melancholy, and the chemistry that is truly, truly the muse. That is
the creative potential that lies within any individual activation.
Everything about individuality is acoustic, and it is through these two gates that
love has a language. It is the language where the love is. It's the language
where the love is: you and me and the language of love. This is the theme of
romance, and the theme of romance is part of what it is to be an individual.
Remember that romance is not about what you have. All romance begins with
what you don't have. The romance in the 28th gate begins with, "There is no
purpose/' and to find that purpose.
Think about romance and what it is to be individual. It means you have to be
in the mood. It means that you have to find passion. It means you have to be
able to express your own unique creativity, and it means that love isn't love
Gate 28
unless it makes you sad. You know, this is the love that can make you so
melancholic. There are always two sides of melancholy: the not-self melancholy and the melancholy of what it is to be
awake. That is nothing more than a muse calling. It is a creative environment. It's the warmest thing that you're ever
going to feel.
So there is a deep, deep, deep romantic quality in the love that's in the 28 and the love that's in the 55. One of the
things to understand about the nature of that is that the love of the 28 is a love that struggles for purpose. It's a love that
struggles for purpose. If there is no struggle, there is no love. If there's love, there must be struggle until there's purpose.
And purpose is something that happens or not. Like all things individual, they're in a pulse. It happens or not. And if it
doesn't happen, then love is your struggle and the struggle is love. For the not-self, here is where romance and sadness
become depression and suicide. This is Romeo and Juliet. "There is no purpose. I don't find any purpose. If I can't have
you, there is no purpose."
I have a personal affection for the 28th gate. Being somebody who is absolutely, purely individual and rooted in
Integration, the 28th gate actually makes me more responsive to others. It's a hook. My mother, my daughter, and
several of my wives had the 28th gate. The 28th gate seems to be one of those things that's just there. I see the force of
it, and I see the pain in it. Because, you see, the 28th gate is very profound. It is about recognizing that the only way
that we're ever going to be free of fear is through purpose, and because that gate is sitting there in duality, that gate is
saying I can only find that purpose through love with another.
It is very difficult to love an individual. It's very difficult. They're very busy loving themselves, or trying to. Everything
about the 28th gate in its deep, deep, deep, deep individuality is that, in the end, there is no purpose without the
other. No fulfillment of purpose without the struggle in love. I'm not just talking about sexual cross-gender love. I'm
talking about that in every way you can imagine a relationship: that you must struggle to get to that place.
37

=== стр 39 ===
38
The spleen is what makes us feel good or not. The themes of love that operate through the spleen can be very painful
and difficult to deal with. Just like it's hard to accept that the person that is telling you that you're a jerk loves you, it's
hard to accept that the struggle you're having is actually the reality of your love, and it's not iust uncomfortable and
dangerous. This is the great gate of risk-taking. It's dangerous. Oh, to be ignorant is to be so, so far from love.
Each of these loves has its unique dynamic. The moment that you can accept it for what it is, when you have love with
a 28th gate, then the opportunity inherent in that is you find purpose in that love with them. And yes, it is a struggle, but
the struggle makes it worthwhile. It makes it worthwhile. See, as a secret (don't tell anybody), deep, deep, deep, deep
underneath that struggle is just, "I don't know. I don't know," over and over and over again, because you see, knowers
can only know. If you have individuality in you, you can never guess. It doesn't help you to wonder. You can only know.
I only know when I know. I never know any other time. If I don't know, I don't know. There's nothing I can do. Knowing
comes or it doesn't come. It's there or it's not.
If you're an individual, everybody wants you to know when they want you to know. "I want to know now." All those
28's who met me, and I had Design, "I want to know now! Now!" Imagine what that's like to have that as your lover!
"I want to know the purpose of this love now." "Sorry, I don't know." "When are you going to know?"
This isn't something you walk into voluntarily and say, "Okay, this is the kind of love that I want. This is what I'm looking
for." Only when you enter into something as yourself will you get, if that's what you're here to get, what's correct for you
in that. It's not easy for us to be together, not just male/female, but all the combinations. Tough, tough work. I know the
love of my children and I know the times I want to strangle them, and I wish the hell that I didn't have that. It's normal.
It's tough: other beings and their auras and their trip and their thing, and then you're expected to live with one of them.
For years! It's insanity, and everybody thinks it's supposed to be good, easy, smooth, wonderful, terrific. No problems.
Give me a break.
See, love allows us to accept what is real, what our limitation is with each other. If you're correct and your way is to
struggle to find purpose through love, it will be just right for you and you will get through that satori. You will. You'll get
to that place of purposefulness, and then all of it is worthwhile. This is the story of the individual lovers. They meet. You
can always tell what they look like. They're acoustic. They talk love. If you have a lover who is a 28, that struggle isn't
an arm wrestle. It's words. And oh, are words cruel! I have heard the ugliest things said to me. I have said the ugliest
things. I'm an individual. This is what it is: it's in the words. It's quite a trip.
So the lovers are there and talking to each other. They don't care what they're saying. They're listening to the tone, to
the music, to the voice. They're listening, and the one thing that they don't want to do is make love. Oh, they have a
passion; it's building. But the one thing they don't want do is make love because chances are, if that lovemaking isn't
good enough, the relationship is over, and the passion is gone.
To enter into love with a 28 and to enter into that struggle is really what it's all about. Waiting for that moment in which
you leap into the purposefulness of that relationship, to discover its beauty, and to discover its music, its art, its creativity,
because that is what individuality is all about. But that's me giving you the romantic side. The not-self world of the 28
is all people telling other people ugly things. Ugly things. Because they don't know and they want to know now.
Everything about individuality is about our evolutionary potential. That is what individuality is about. The collective
represents what has been and what could be, but within individuality is the potential always for something to
emerge that's truly new. It's what mutation is all about. When you think about all the individuality that's in a Human

=== стр 40 ===
Design body graph, individuality is enormous as circuitry when compared to the others. When you look at all the
gates of individuality and all of them being affected, we know that each of those gates is absorbed in the
individual, that all of them are about the individual, but what happens to our evolution then. They can't all be about
the individual. It can't just be selfish. It can't.
There is only one thing that prevents individuality from being sterile, from being non-mutative, and that's the 28th gate
because this is the only individual gate that recognizes that truth is something that has to be shared, and that you find
truth through and with the other. You see, individuals get that but they don't realize it in their lives. The 28th gate is here
as an evolutionary track. It's here to force our evolutionary program to be a continuation of the yin and the yang
working it out, coming to a greater truth, finding a greater purpose.
The 28th gate is very special, in the quarter of Duality, a romantic gate. That 28th gate that is sitting there is the only
gate that makes integration social. It's the only gate that will take the pure survivability of the individual and say, "Wait
a minute. What about me? You think that purpose is fulfilled through life because you can hunt and I don't get to eat?"
If it weren't for the 28th gate, individuality would be such a cold, terrible thing on the splenic side, and on the
emotional side, just savagery. So, here lies the magic. It's a wonderful joke for me. The joke is that evolutionary love
is a struggle. It's a struggle. We're going to struggle through our whole damn evolution. As long as we're this and
that, we're going to struggle to find purpose through love, and out of that comes the miracle. Out of that comes the
special experience. Out of that comes the purpose that belongs to the binary and not the single unit.
The magic that's possible in the awake 28 is that they can bond without losing their individuality. After all, when you
come together in individuality, the goal is empowerment: each empowering the other, empowering each other to find
purpose together as a by-product of that. It's not about giving up the individuality. This is the mystery that the 28 brings,
but, you see, the not-self gets scared because it looks like it's just looking for a fight. It looks like they're just saying those
things to see what happens.
The not-self and the 28th gate don't get along. But this is our way, and each of us has a fractal of that. We must find,
in one way or another, through our process, the beauty of struggling with love. Not giving up. Going through the
struggle to find the purpose.
The whole of us, as an aura, cannot participate in that until we have those beings that
carry this energy living out their true nature, so that this is the conditioning we get, and not that we're conditioned that
our parents struggled, which meant that they really didn't like each other and that they were fighting all the time. To be
able to be aware and awake, and to recognize that your parents fighting is them being in love. It's them being in love,
and if they couldn't fight they'd be really upset. If they're correct, those struggles are wonderful.
It doesn't mean it has to feel good. Everybody thinks they have to feel good. The one thing that I know about life is,
some things feel wonderful and some things feel terrible. What to do! And there are moments in the struggle where you
wish you weren't there because you have to go through things you don't want to go through. And then how are you
going to take the risk to find the purpose?
Because it's about knowing, because it's about individuality, it means that, in that process of struggling, you never know
if it's love until the love is there. You never know. In those moments of struggle, which are transcendent and quantum, it's
in those moments of struggle that you know that love it there, and you can only know that as yourself. You can't know
that as the not-self. The not-self is so disturbed and weak and afraid. It has so much anger inside and frustration and
pain. It has so many fixed concepts that don't have anything to do with the truth.
39

=== стр 41 ===
See, love isn't for those who are not awake. You don't get it. When you're awake, you get love. When you're not
awake, you get the themes, and you get to live out the themes as the not-self. Oh, yes, there are tinges of that love in
there, of course, but it's not you. To vibrate as yourself, to be yourself, you don't have to look for love. It's in you. It's
outside of you. It's all around you. You get what's correct for you, and you go through it.
Again, it's not about whether that's good. You have moments that are bliss, moments that aren't; moments that are high,
moments that are low. We live in an emotional planet. Never forget that. Life is never going to be easy. Anybody who
tells you that is lying. It's not about ease. It's about knowing how to ride the waves. It's about knowing how to go up and
down on your surfboard along the way of life, because that's what it is. When you're correct, there's no pain in that.
No pain for the passenger. There's the beauty of what life is.
I'm a 10. I know the beauty of being in the world. I know that the world is this and the world is that. Okay. This is what
love is. 28's are very special because they're saying we have to find this love together. We have to struggle to find love,
all of us. It's a struggle. And the struggle isn't to find the love. The struggle is to live out who you are; then the love is
there. That's the struggle. That's the real purpose. That's the point. Any 28 who comes to me and they want to know
how it works, can find purpose in that. This is all about them struggling for the purpose. "Give me a purpose. Give me
a purpose." If you don't give them a purpose, and you don't explain it well, they're angry with you.
You have to find out what it's like to know love as you. I wish for everyone to see what that's like because it's not
Hollywood. It's better. Much better. And it's real. No illusions. Just what is.
40
Eternally Indecisive Love - Gate 55
The 28th gate is in the splenic system. I talked about how, in individuality,
you don't know until you know. The 28th gate struggles to get to its knowing.
It goes through its whole life, "I know. I don't know." Everything that it grasps
and every aspect it gets to know, it moves onward to the next pressure in its
struggle, but it's always able to get to that place of knowing.
When you go over to the 55th gate, first of all, we've moved to the emotional
system where nothing is stable. This is the only gate of love that's in the
emotional system. It's the only one, and this gate of love is in the 55th gate,
and the 55th gate does not reveal itself. It is a gate that's under mutative
pressure, and we're going to live, at least many of you anyway, will live to
see the time in which this gate itself will be mutated.
It's out of the 55th gate that we get the process of a new kind of awareness:
an awareness that's not dominated by the emotional wave, the motor of the
emotional system, but an awareness rooted in the vast neural intelligence of
the solar plexus system. This is a new form of awareness that will emerge in
children coming into the world. Anyone who carries the 55th gate in their
design carries something that has a deep, deep, deep limitation because it's
Gate 55

=== стр 42 ===
in transition. This 55th gate, Abundance, is really the gate of spirit, but the spirit that's not there. The Cross of the
Sleeping Phoenix. It's not there yet.
The 55th gate is the moodiest, and you see, the 55th gate never, ever knows anything for sure. "Do you love me?" "I
don't know." "Do you hate me?" "I don't know." "Come on, you must know." "No, I don't know." They don't know. They
cannot know. And because they don't know and they cannot know, they're really sick people. Every eating disease you
can imagine is in the 55th gate, every extreme of it, from anorexia to bulimia. Every emotional breakdown that you can
imagine is in the 55th gate, and it's all because of the pressure of life on that gate.
You see, the collective thinks about decisions. Somebody comes up to you and they want you to make a decision. If
you're a logical person what you do is you quickly string out some patterns. You look to see whether you think those
patterns are okay, and based on that you make a decision. If you're an abstract person, you look back. You see its
relationship to what was back there, and you make a decision. Now, of course, this is everybody wanting you to be a
manisfestor as the not-self. It's the way it works. When you impose that conditioning on an individual and you say to
them, "Okay, what's your decision?" and they go, "I don't know," all they get is anger. "What do you mean you don't
know?" My father used to say that to me all the time. "What do you mean you don't know? It's either this or that." "I
don't know!" " What are you an idiot? It's either this or that." And I'd go, "I don't know!" "What do you mean, you
don't know? I mean there is only this and that." "I don't know. I don't know which one I like or dislike." Drives people
crazy. They want to hit you. They want to say to you, "You idiot! What do you mean you don't know? Anybody can
make a decision."
So think about that and love. "Do you love me?" "I don't know." "What do you mean, you don't know? We've been
together 25 years!" They don't know, and they suffer a lot. They suffer because everybody expects them to know. Their
lovers expect them to know, instead of accepting their spirit. They do have an extraordinary emotional spirit. There's a
quality in them that is not just sexy, but it is creative, deeply, deeply creative. This gate resonates to music. But these are
not beings that know. They can't know. And that's one of the things about love.
There are things about love we can never know. It's built into the program. Those that will awaken with the transformed
solar plexus will not have the same mystery we do because that gate will be resolved. But for us, love carries this
mystery: that we feel something when we listen to a piece of music and think about somebody, and all of a sudden
there's this spirit that's there. There's this magic of the unknowing of love. And at its deepest mystical quality, this is the
greatest unrequited love of all. The tradition of unrequited love is that you love somebody you cannot have.
Throughout the Middle Ages, across this entire planet, the finest poetry in the world was poetry of unrequited love.
It's gorgeous. Can you imagine the poet and the person together? Disaster. But that unrequited love, the magic of
that! You know: "If only, ah, the goddess!" It's what brings us this 'something' about love, is that there is still this
unknowable. But the 55th gate has a special thing. It knows something. It knows there's something different coming.
It knows that.
Every 55, wherever it is in their design, in that not knowing, there is an expectation that something is actually coming,
and rht:: mornt::nt that you're the not-self, you don't get that. You just get the discomfort with, "Why can't I make a
decision?" "She loves me, she loves me not. Why can't I make a decision? Why can't I really know for sure? Why can't
I finally just be clear?" Emotions. And worse, hidden. But if you're awoke, if you're living out your strategy, in the
moment that your lover says to you, "Do you love me?" and you go, "I don't know," you also know at the some time that
there is something, somewhere that you're actually waiting for. You won't get it. You're not designed for it. You're not.
It's still the old 55, and it's still hidden. It's still very moody, very uncomfortable. It gets very ill. It can be deeply
41

=== стр 43 ===
42
depressed, very sad. Again, iF you're not yourselF, we are all victims of our design. All of us. Designs are something that
is really complex. You can see that. You know that. The moment that you think you can control this part of it, that part
of it, or the other part of it, it's just a joke. You can't. The only way that you can find these aspects and live them out
correctly is that you've just got to be you. That's the beauty of the mechanics. That's the beauty of honoring your type.
It is what it's about. As long as you can do that, it works.

=== стр 44 ===
I want you to be able to enjoy this now. I want to show you what happens in a relationship, and I have a selection of
famous love affairs, long married couples. I want to give you examples that you can look at that you can begin to see
what happens.
In the whole business of design, the first magic of design is that you get to see your own design. That's the first magic.
The second thing is you get to see the design of those people that you care about, and you get to see your interaction
with those beings. Anybody who's had any kind of level of education in Human Design knows that when you put two
charts together, there are different ways in which we connect, that is, the ways in which we connect in a channel
between centers. Recognize that in the ways in which we connect between those channels, there are three different
basic forms of how we deal with connectivity.
We have dominance. Dominance is when somebody brings the whole channel and you don't have anything there.
Everybody thinks dominance is terrible, and it's not. It's actually very interesting because when you have dominance
with your partner, there's something about your partner that you know that's always consistent. You see them for what
they are without them being connected to you. The not-self takes dominance as something that's unbearable. /II always
have to do what you want. I always have to act the way you want me to act./I And on and on.
We have electro-magnetics: you have one end of the channel and the other person has the other end of the channel. You
come together and it's called love/hate. It's electro-magnetism. It's attraction and repulsion. The very thing that brings
us to somebody is the very thing that pushes us away. Ever notice that about love? The more you love you more you can
hate. The more you love somebody, the more you can hate them. I hate the people I love so much, and it's just a sign
of how much I love them because it's the reality of what electro-magnetism is. That very attraction is also, /lOh, I wish
you weren't doing that to me. And I don't want you to do that to me, so back off./I And at the same time the moment they
back off, it's /lWhere is it? I want it back. Bring it over here./I Because that's what it is. It's attraction. It's repulsion.
The not-self has a real problem with this. The not-self expects that when the electro-magnetism says, /lAh,/I it's going to
stay there. The first shock for them is that their love and their attraction can almost immediately be hate. It's just there.
That's what electro-magnetism does. If you don't know how mechanics work, your mind is always making up some kind
of stupid reason why things are happening the way they are. That moment of going from love to hate is the moment in
which you think you have found something that you really don't like. It's not true. It's just the mechanism of the way that
it works.
The worst is compromise. For the not-self, compromise is so painful. One partner has the whole channel and the other
partner has one gate of the channel, so you sort of have the same thing, but you always have to do what your partner
43

=== стр 45 ===
44
does, in the end. You always have to compromise to where it leads to, and the not-self screams. It screams. It says,
"There are so many other possibilities for me, why must I do it this way?"
I have the 62nd gate. I have the gate of details and facts. I live with both a wife and a son who have the 17th gate,
and I live with somebody who has the 17/62, the whole thing. They've got their own opinions. They have their own
facts. I want to strangle them every day. I mean, every day. I have no fixed opinions. They don't exist. You're having
a discussion with somebody who has fixed opinions and their own detail. You're living with them and there is
nothing you can do. You can hit them; it doesn't help. There's nothing you can do. You cannot argue with them. You
can't. Nothing. It's infuriating. The not-self goes crazy with such things. Me? I find it so funny. I do. I find it so funny.
I mean it is so funny. But then again, I'm me.
When you see these three ways, dominance, electro-magnetic and compromise, in the ten gates that we've looked at,
that's where you really see what's going on, because there you get to see how those themes are being worked. Are they
being worked through dominance? Are they being worked through attraction and repulsion? Is it compromise? And
then you begin to be able to meet the quality of not simply your themes of love that you have in your design, but then
to be able to see how those themes work with your lovers, with your children, with your family, with your friends. In
other words, you really begin to see how that mechanism works in you. It's not just about what the theme is by itself
sitting there in your design.
Remember, love, other than through the 10th gate, is about the other, and it's only when you see the kind of connection
that the other makes to you that you really begins to understand how love works in you relative to them. To them. Your
theme with somebody else can be so different.

=== стр 46 ===
•
£
£
Design
Personality
Design
Personality
826 1
... 635 8
849 1V
25 8
(f) 45 1
645 (f)
(f)
4 1V
15 (f)
<t 33 3
V 57 1CC
CC 10 4
... 176 [.:
f658 4
58 1f6
f640 3
596f6
U52 4
52 1U
U37 3
556U
If 58 2
374 If
If 61 4
23 3 ~
9 41 2
366 9
«22 2V
154 «
c! 10 5v
v 37 5 c!
c! 17 6...
166 d'
4- 26 1
58 1 4-
4- 12 5
52 1 4-
"2 32 6
502 "2
"2 58 1
58 5 "2
<1> 32 5
32 5
<1>
<1> 43 5
433
<1>
If 14 5
34 1 If
If
52...
52 If
(0) 37 4
376 (0)
(0) 22 1
223 (0)
The Brownings
Elizabeth Browning
Robert Browning
This is a famous couple from England. In the 19th century, they were both very creative people. They were both writers,
and they were man and wife. They were part of the literati and the avant-garde of their time, and were actually quite
deeply influential.
At the top you have Elizabeth Barrett Browning. I don't want to get into the person. I just want to talk about the themes.
So first, let's take a look at the anti-mundane themes of love in this being. We see somebody that has the 25th gate and
the 10th gate, so we know right away something about this human being. We know that in the 25th gate there's this
natural tendency to be loving about the nature of the totality. There's this larger love that's out there, and it's not
personal.
Then you have the 10th gate going directly into the sacral center, so you have a very powerful, very pure generator
with this channel of following your convictions. This 10th gate is all the absorption of trying to love oneself because
you can do your thing in the world. Neither one of those, the 10 nor the 25, is going to bring personal love, in that
sense. In other words, we're looking at the transcendent quality of love.
45

=== стр 47 ===
46
Let's look at her mundane gates: you get the 58th gate and you get the 41 st gate. Here is somebody who has the
tendency to show her love through saying, "You're not perfect; let me fix you," and to show her love by saying, "You're
not perfect I'm going to fantasize about somebody else." Now, those are themes of love on the mundane plane and
they're sitting there in her root center.
Let's go to her man, Robert Browning. If we look for the transcendent, we get the 15th gate and we get somebody who
is a 15/5. He's always controlling the pattern. He's always controlling the flow. His whole love of humanity is about
how everybody should be, and it's not personal.
Let's look at his mundane. We can see that he has the 58, "I love you. You're imperfect. Let me correct you." And he has
the 55, "I really don't know. I really don't know. I really don't know." On top of that, he has the 40 that (together with
the other two gates) says, "I don't know. I'm doing it all for you. You'd better be perfect," because it's all there.
So we know that there are themes here. Now, it doesn't mean the themes get played out. It depends on how that other
is going to connect to you and whether that activation that you have is in a defined center. Look at his root: it's open,
that 41. Look at her root: it's open, the 41 and the 58. And look at the two roots together: they stay open. No
connection. They don't get to love each other that way. She doesn't get to love him by correcting him. He doesn't get to
love her by correcting her, and he doesn't get to fantasize about all those other women that are possible because they
don't do that to each other.
You see, we have potentials for love but they don't all come out necessarily. They can. It doesn't mean they will. And
they don't all come out consistently. They don't. It's a different movie every time you change partners, children, lovers,
friends, or whatever, and different things get activated.
Now, think about what actually happens to them in fact. In fact, the moment that somebody comes to visit them and
steps in with a defined root center and she starts to talk, he says, "You're being an idiot." And he starts to respond and
she says, "You're being a fool." All of a sudden, all the criticism comes out in front of the friend who is very embarrassed.
"What did I do?" And the moment that the friend's there doing that, he's fantasizing making love to her, because all of
a sudden it's all activated, and it's not them.
You see, we're ignorant. We don't know how the game is played, and the moment you see how the game is played,
it's like, "Oh, my God!" So there they are, neither one of them being able to experience that love until somebody
comes into the house. Now, think about what happens if they have children. Ah, suddenly there is a new love story.
Suddenly it's very different. He's fantasizing about women all the time. The two of them are constantly criticizing
each other. To understand how that works, you'd have to see the children and the way they connect that love. Is it
an electro-magnetic? Is it a compromise? Are we going to bitch at each other the way the child wants? In a
relationship like this, the child can force the parents to fight in a certain way. It's so easy, and it's just mechanics.
And here they are thinking, "I've got a problem!" They don't know the half of it!
Whenever I look at a couple of the charts like this, I can always hear them talking to each other. It's so easy to hear the
language that comes out of that. Let me give you some examples of how that works. Look at her: you've got a single
definition, G center generator. Single definition in integration: deeply, deeply, deeply individual being. She's got two
transcendent love gates that are active, but only one is making the definition. In the language of analysis, the definition
is the verb and the activation is the adjective. Universal love is in the background, but it's not her theme. Her theme is,
"Me." That's her theme, and he says to her, "You never think about me." He says that all the time. "You never think about
me. I'm doing all these things for you ..." (His 40), " ...I'm doing all these things, and you never think about me." And
she says, "Crucify me, what am I supposed to do?"

=== стр 48 ===
You can just hear it. And her thinking about her is her way of demonstrating love for him. He's not going to get that
because it doesn't feel that way. Her way of loving him is saying, "You be a better poet and leave me alone. Shouldn't
you be writing?" "You never think about me." "Go away now."
Now, you see, if you're awake that's great. If you're not... She wasn't like that with him. This is somebody with three
open awareness centers. This is somebody that is deeply conditioned. This is a generator that's deeply frustrated that
her truth has never come out. She doesn't say that. And every time he says to her, "You don't think about me," she feels
guilty. "Oh, I'd better think about him." And she can't. She forgets that she's supposed to, and then she gets into all
kinds of trouble. "You're supposed to be thinking about me!" And he's got the ego. "Oh my God! She's not thinking
about me!" If anybody hooks up his root center, part of his fantasy is, "Uh-oh, maybe she has a lover. Maybe she is
interested in somebody else. She's certainly isn't interested in me."
Poor thing. How she would have suffered from that. What a trip! And this was a 19th century woman. What a trip! But
that's her. And those themes that she has, the 58 and the 41, are not active in that relationship. They don't count. It's not
consistent in her. Yes, it's things she learns. Yes, it's things she will meet, but what is consistent for her is that she needs
to follow her conviction. She needs to follow the conviction of being a generator being herself, discovering self-love.
That's what she's here for. And she's Integration. She's here to be absorbed in herself, not to be concerned about
somebody else. That's not what she's for.
The conditioning is: "You're bad. You don't think about me. You don't care about me. You're only interested in yourself.
And here I am doing all of this for you. And look what I get in return." That's what she heard all her life, and she didn't
just hear it from her man. She heard it from her mother and her father, a recurrent theme in her life. "You're selfish. You
don't care. You're cold. You don't tell us the truth." She's got an undefined emotional system. He has no idea how much
she's hidden from him, how she feels, what she really has gone through in her life, the pain that she has experienced.
He never knows that. It's all hidden. She smiles.
Underneath the smile is, "Son of a bitch, leave me alone." She's here to follow her convictions and to be her, and if you
want to love this woman, you have to love her loving herself. Nothing else. Just let her be that. It doesn't mean that she
does not love you just because you don't get all that attention. She doesn't have time. The 34: "I'm busy with me. I'm
busy with me. I'm busy with me." Okay. But then don't try to get her busy with you. That's not the point.
So the moment that you come and look at somebody's themes, you have to see, all right, that's who they are. Let them
live that out. Then comes what the struggle of love is all about: to go through that de-conditioning, the psychological de-
conditioning, to not be upset that you're not the whole center of her universe, and then to be able to learn from that the
beauty of that because it's there. No love stands alone.
But again, it's about acceptance. Remember something. No matter how many things I teach you, how many directions
I point you in, knowing it makes very little difference. Living your design, honoring your strategy, that is the whole story
because then it will all be correct and you're not going to be in the situation that she was in that she was tormented by
all that stuff and that she never got to live out who she is. Never. Never.
47

=== стр 49 ===
£
Robert Browning
V49 1025
V
4 1Ef)
15
104~ 176...
.403£6596
v 373'(5' 55 6
61 4 t} 233
V 222 9 154
176cf 166
125 ~ 521
8 1 "2 585
50 433
lj!
52...
22 3
Elizabeth Browning
26 10635...
45 1Ef) 645
33 3(C 571v
584£6 58 1
v 52 4'(5' 52 1
582 9 374
41 2 9366
v 105 0 37 5v
26 1 4- 58 1
326 "2 5
325 <1>
... 145 lj!
4 1
374
376
I love the world of Maya. I enjoy the illusion. The illusion
is delicious, and all of us are always taking in the
conditioning of this world of illusion through what is open
in us. Conditioning is not bad. It really isn't. After all, the
moment that you're living only the not-self, every thing
that moves through an open center, every thing that moves
through an open channel becomes something that you
can be a victim of, that will distort your life, that can
upset you, that can be a negative for you. The moment
you live out what is your nature and learn to see what
conditioning is, only here can you be wise. Only.
Dominance
Dominance is a very special phenomenon. Look at her
10/34. He doesn't have that, nor does he have anything
<..
mposite
'--'--_--'-
-"'-'--...::....E'--
....>....J
in Integration. No 20th gate. No 57th gate. In other
words, that's her pure dominance. He has none of that. When somebody says to him as they're meeting somewhere for
a cup of coffee, "Boy, is your wife ever self-absorbed." He goes, "Yeah, that's true." Because this is the whole thing
about dominance: dominance allows you to see the other the way everybody sees them.
I know couples that truly don't know each other. When there is no dominance in a relationship, you only know what you
are when you come together, but you don't know what the other is when you're apart. "Oh, yeah, I was with your wife
last night and she was dancing naked on the table." Somebody had a different connection to her. With dominance, if
that's there and they tell you that, you go, "Yeah, yeah, I know. And she doesn't dance very well either, does she?"
Totally different. Because you know that person.
So he knows her. And the one thing that he knows about her that everybody else knows is that she's absorbed in her
own trip. He knows that. Now, the not-self doesn't like that. They can't change it, and it's always in their face. He says,
"Look, I've got this wonderful pattern." She says, "Sorry dear. I'm busy." He says, "Look at what I just brought you
today, how hard I worked." "Sorry, dear. I'm busy." She's busy. She's plucking an eyebrow, or something. She's busy.
"Dear, the house is burning." "I'm sorry. I'm busy right now." "Don't you care?" "Wait a minute; when I'm finished."
He knows this and it drives him crazy. The not-self doesn't like that. It doesn't. "Why are you always like that? Why are
you always busy? Why don't you have any time for me? Why don't you think about me? Why am I living with you?"
This is his trip. Oh, this is his trip. See, he's got that 40 there and then the 55 is there. The 55 becomes the adjective to
that verb as part of that whole system. "I don't know whether I want to look after you or not. You don't care about me.
You don't think about me. I had this great thing to show you today and you were busy. Well, you're always busy."
And then look at him. He's a 15/5. 'Mr. Being in the Flow.' You know? Mr. 15/5 that says, "If you're not in my flow,
you're not with me." The great comment of the 15th gate: "My way, or the highway." That's the 15th gate: "Do it like
me. Fuck 'em. You want to love me? Walk like I walk. Talk like I talk. Do like I do. Go where I go." Now, it's not like that's
conscious. It's the mechanics, and she doesn't have any of that. None of it. When she looks at him, what she sees is,
"You always want me to do what you want. You always want me to do what you want. I always have to do what you
want. I don't want to now. I'm busy." And he's saying, "You're always busy, and this is what I want you to do."
48

=== стр 50 ===
They were famous for their fights. Wild. And it's built into the not-self. The not-self has a really hard time with the other,
obviously, because if you don't understand how these things are working ... Where do you think my sense of humor
comes from? It's from seeing how it works. It's hilarious because I know how serious people take all this stuff and how
much pain they go through, how much it disturbs them. And then you look at that movie and you think, /lHa! Ha! Look
at them. This is what they get./I
And of course you have a line you can't cross. He always wants her to be in his flow, and if she's not in his flow, then
he doesn't love her. She always wants him to realize that she needs to be busy with herself, and if he doesn't let her do
that, she's not going to love him. And then they have all kinds of problems. And then, the moment a neighbor comes by,
they start screaming at each other. And it's all not-self. It doesn't mean that they're not right for each other. It doesn't
mean that. That's the whole thing about awareness. It doesn't matter what kind of relationship you have. It really doesn't
matter. It doesn't matter whom it's with. If you're correct, those themes operate correctly. They operate correctly. You'll
get what is correct in response. It is the way it is meant to be, and instead of having every single collection of couples
just being a problematic comedy of errors, you really end up with relationships and relating.
You know, she has much to learn from his patterns. He has much to learn about loving the self. It is something they can
teach each other. It's something they can learn to see that is really unique in each other. But you don't get there until you
can be secure in who you are. You don't get there until you can enter into the relationship correctly and you live out what
is correct for you. And then it's okay because you get rid of all these false concepts, all the generalizations: /lWell, it's
bad dear that you only think about yourself./I /lOh, you shouldn't force people into your pattern./I You can't stop people
from being what they are.
The greatest crime of all is to try to suppress somebody's definition. It is what we are and nobody's going to accept it
and nobody is going to recognize how deep the love is, because her love for herself is not selfish. It's a path to
awakening, and the path to awakening embraces nothing but love. It's a process. His concern about the direction and
the pattern is legitimate. That's what he is here for. There are ways that human beings can be more loving with each
other, but it's all about the acceptance of self. It begins with your strategy. It begins with that. It ends with that. I say it
so often.
I'm in my third seven-year cycle. When you get to my point, you don't think about that any more. I don't think about my
strategy any more. It's just what's there. The de-conditioning process is a constant reminder, to honor what is correct for
you, but waking up is about living a new life as yourself. As yourself. The same person. The same design. But if you're
correct, you're allowed to live it. Remember, we're here with the other. The other will allow you to live it when you're
correct, and then you don't end up in those mindless, mindless confrontations.
If dominance exists in a relationship, you get to know something about your partner because it's consistent. It doesn't
have to be there, none of these things do, but if it's there, it's something that you get to know.
Compromise
Compromi"e i" a problem. I've done endle"" number" or relationships charts, and the moment I look at a relationship
chart, because I'm dealing with the not-self, I go immediately to compromise because compromise tells me the one thing
that will destroy a relationship. Dominance allows you to see the other. The electro-magnetic gives you this attraction
and repulsion. The electro-magnetic is responsible, in a sense, for setting the spark of a relationship and keeping the
spark alive, but it will never end the relationship.
49

=== стр 51 ===
50
Compromise is a place, in people who are not aware, where the not-self gets to the point where it's 'so far and no
further,' and the relationship collapses. Compromise is very difficult. One partner has the whole channel; the other
partner has a part of the channel. Compromise is difficult wherever it appears in the body graph, but when it appears
in connection to a gate of love, ah, you'd better be yourself because if you're not yourself, it's going to be very difficult.
It's simply the reality.
Look at Robert Browning. This is somebody who has an emotional ego connected to the throat. This is a manifesting
generator. This is somebody, by the way, who never generated. Again, he didn't know. Manifesting generators,
particularly male manifesting generators, would be embarrassed to have to live like a generator. The idea of it,
propaganda-wise! This is somebody who is always racing ahead, and this is somebody always meeting resistance.
Because this is somebody deeply individual, this is somebody who is very moody in all of that resistance.
Now, look at that gate of love, the 40th gate. It's connected through the definition to the emotional system to the 55. Two
gates of love, interconnected to each other through the ego emotional system. We know what the 40th gate is: "I am
only willing to work when there is somebody to work for. I'm willing to work when there's something to work for. And
when I do that work, and I make that sacrifice, and I use my will power, I expect you to love me for that." Okay, that's
the 40.
The 55 always says, "I don't know. I don't know if I love her. I don't know." "You want to support this woman?" "I don't
know." "Well, do you want to stop?" "I don't know." "Well, what do you want to do?" "Well, I don't know." "Don't you
think you should come to some kind of decision?" "I don't know!" Drives people crazy.
So think about this: she's got the 37th gate. He's got the 37th gate, but he also has the 40. So her 37 is sitting there as
a kind of electro-magnetic to his 40 going, "You can look after me." That's what the 37 looks like when it looks at the
40. "You can look after me. I'm available. I will hug you. I will tell you that you are terrific. Look after me."
But you see, it's up to him. Because he has his own 37, he doesn't need her as the impetus to what he does and the use
of his will power. And the 55 is there, so he's going, "I don't know. I don't know if I like this. I don't know if I like being
in this position. I don't know if I like doing this./I Somebody says, "Do you want to stop?" and he says, "I don't know."
And he goes on and on and on and on. He's mad with his own indecisiveness, and she hates it. She hates it because
he always decides what the bargain is. This is the channel of bargains. This is where the deal is made.
"I do the
laundry; you do the garbage. Okay, here's the deal. Don't break the deal." But he's the 40; she has no 40. He's the one
who decides. He's the one who has the will power. She does the laundry; he doesn't do the garbage. She gets pissed.
"Why didn't you do your end?" "I don't know." "Don't you realize that we have a bargain?" "Oh, I don't know. I don't
know if I like the bargain. I don't know." Drives her crazy. And then she wonders why he gets upset when she's busy
with herself.
I can tell people's sexual lives in half a second by looking at their chart. There he was all cranked up and she's going,
''I'm busy dear. I'm busy dear. I really am. I'm busy. Sorry, I'm busy./I That was her: "I have a headache. I'm busy."
Compromise is something where you're always hitting the same wall. Always. You cannot intellectually surrender to
that. Nobody can. You can't because it's not reasonable. It's unfair, and part of love is that love is unfair. Tough.
Nothing has taught me more than compromise. You know, I'm an ego manifestor. I want things my way. The moment
that you meet compromise, you know right away how funny that is. There's nothing you can do. Nothing. You get out
your atomic bomb and you try to blow it up; doesn't work. I use all my powers of seduction; doesn't work. I use all my
intellect; doesn't work.

=== стр 52 ===
I have met many 17/62's in my life. They're the ones that are my favorite. They have opinions, and no matter how much
I tell them, "You're being an absolute fucking idiot. You don't know what you're talking about. This is not true. This is
utterly ridiculous. II They look at you like, "You have a problem? Don't you see that I've got it?" You bang and you bang,
and nothing.
Now, if you don't understand that, you kill them. You go nuts. You leave them. You walk, because compromise is like
that. And yet, at the same time, it's magic. He is Mr. 'I Don't Know'. "I don't know." And all she has to do is be able
to say, "Well, while you don't know, I'll be busy. Everything is okay. You sit over there and say, 'I don't know.' I'll be
up here being 'I'm busy.' Everything is all right." And the moment that he says to her, "0h, I don't know if I'm going
to look after you," if she's really living out her design she'll say, "I don't care. I'm busy. I've got something to do. You
think I'm waiting for yoU?"
And then all of this goes away. Oh, I love having compromise in my life because it always reminds me who I am. These
things don't bother me. I'm awake. I watch the movie. I see how it works. It's okay. What to do? Human beings are
going to be what they are, and I like that, as long as they live it. It's the not-self that I don't like and all the confusion and
all the pain that comes out of the not-self. To accept ourselves: it's so easy.
We have the mechanics, and then when you get into this kind of stuff, you don't have what they had, which is not a
great relationship: a relationship full of suspicion and tensions, misunderstanding and lack of appreciation. The best
qualities of the two of them and the value of who the two of them are for each other, the transcendent quality that comes
through a relationship, is lost. It's lost. You never get to see that. And after all, that's what love is about. Love is about
getting us to the point that we realize that what happens has nothing to do with the I and the other. But it's what happens
between the I and the other. It's the magic. You don't get there as the not-self. You really don't. You just end up in the
morass.
No Sparks of Love
There's a connection missing in here. There's no electro-magnetic connection through gates of love in their relationship. Their
relationship is entirely rooted in dominance. The problems in the relationship are all going to be focused in the compromise.
Always. If I was dealing with them therapeutically, if I was dealing with them through a reading, if I was dealing with them
as a relationship, I would be right there in the 40/37 because that's where the real difficulty is in the relationship.
When you're looking at gates of love and you see electro-magnetics through the gates of love, this is the real kicker, and
often very difficult because the electro-magnetic that can be so attractive, after all, wherever your gate is, you can have
the same connection with tens of thousands of people, and with various planets on various days. Always keep that in
mind. In other words, love for us is a complexity of many things, but ultimately it's the perfection of our geometry.
If you took the relationship they have in the 40/37, and if you took away his 37, so he had that isolated 40, and it was
meeting electro-magnetically with her 37, it would be entirely different. The very thing that would be attractive to the two
of them, the very thing that would have brought them together is that he is ready to work for her and she wants him to.
She's the 37; he's the 40. And then his 55 then doesn't come out as, "I don't know why I'm doing this," or "I don't know
whether I want to do this or not." It becomes, "I don't know why I do this for her." It's different, and that, "I don't know
why I do it for her," when it's on the positive side, is incredible. What a mystery! "I don't know why I do this for her. She
must be so special for me." The other side is, "I don't know why I do this for her. It's really a drag," because there's
51

=== стр 53 ===
52
always the other side. That would then become the focus of their real love: working out the bargain, playing the game
with each other. But there is no electro-magnetic. It's a compromise. And it changes everything. So we have gates of
love, and we have qualities of inactivity.
Next, I will show you more complexity. I'm going to put the final layers on for you. You're going to see love through the
center. You're going to see love through the type. You're going to see love through the profile, as it's seen in the chart.
Ultimately what you see in the end is what I've always started with. Live your design. There's too much stuff in Human
Design to figure out. It's a wonderful trip. I enjoy it myself, but you know, I'm just happy living my design. It makes life
easier. It will make your life easier.
It makes love something that isn't in the books anymore. We have all these ideas and concepts about how we are
supposed to be together, and they were all written and created and lived by the not-self. Think about that. All these
funny ideas we have about how we're supposed to be with each other, how it really works, all of this was created by
not-self ignorance. We're a generation that has an opportunity, through mechanics, to discover what love is. That is, to
discover the ways in which love operates through us, and to see it with new eyes. To see it with eyes that aren't distorted
by the not-self is something to look forward to, and it's something that is genuinely worth the journey.
More on Compromise
Remember something about compromise. Whenever you're looking at a relationship with anyone, with anyone, it
doesn't matter what relationship that is, always look at the compromises. Since you're dealing with a not-self, when you
look at the compromises, you understand the fundamental tension in a relationship that will, sooner or later, destroy the
relationship, unless you've got people that can deal with that and recognize what it is.
Compromise is something that is very, very difficult in relationships, and when you have compromise and it's related to
a gate of love, then you really have something that has to be dealt with. Throughout my career when I've been dealing
with partnership analysis and I've been looking at dealing with a couple and my movie with the couple as I sit between
them, you see what's there. My eye always goes to the compromise because I know that in the not-selfcouple sitting
beside me, the place of deterioration in the relationship, the place where they're having their great dilemma is all
associated to that compromise. So it's a very important thing to keep in mind when you're looking at the way connectivity
operates.
The other thing I want you to keep in mind, because I'm not going to spend a lot more time doing more analysis (I have
things to cover here about the nature of connectivity that will take up most of our time), but whenever you're looking at
the way in which we connect, looking at dominance, electro-magnetics and compromise, obviously, these connections
take place in places other than where there are gates of love. Obviously. When you're looking at a partnership, it's very
important to see what's the priority. In other words, if there is an electro-magnetic in a gate of love, that's going to be
dominant to an electro-magnetic that's in a non-place of love. It's a very, very different kind of connection.
The same is true for compromise. Compromise in a non-gate of love is actually much easier for the not-self to deal with.
They're just annoyed. It's much easier for the not-self to deal with it than compromise through a gate of love. So, there
is a hierarchy when you're looking at connectivity. In other words, you're going to find electro-magnetics, dominances,
or whatever in places other than where the gates of love are. Recognize that when you're looking at a partnership, in
any relationship, there is a hierarchy, that compromise in a gate of love is more problem than compromise in a non-gate
of love.

=== стр 54 ===
Electro-magnetic is really more sparky when it's through a gate of love than when it's through a non-gate of love.
Dominance through a gate of love is much more: these are people that really see that everybody loves their other. They
see that the quality is shining. These are much more powerful than when they're in non-gates-of-Iove.
With a partner, if you don't have a gate of love that's connected, those other aspects then take on that quality, sort of. It's sort
of a way of getting there. I know couples that are hooked that way, where their electro-magnetic is in a non-gate of love.
And of course, basically what happens is that develops into a kind of extension of friendship. It becomes a sort of level of
friendship, rather than that being the deep bonding that's possible through connectivity relative to gates of love.
TheWagners
Here we have, historically, a very famous couple, Richard and Cosima Wagner, again a 19th century couple. I like
doing people that are dead. I find it amusing. They can't complain! Only their crystals can spit. Again, let's see what
it looks like when you're looking for themes of love.
Richard
£
Personality
20 10
34 1<:9
133 CC
71[6
V 13 1?j
27 4 9
...
86 ((
V 41 2 d'
... 31 2 4-
54 5 "2
142
<1>
54 'f
224(0)
Design
055 3
<:9 59 3
CC 44 5
[6
4 1
?j49 1
9 49 3
(( 19 2V
d'
55
4- 56 5
"2 54 1
<1> 14 4
'f
55
(0.1 22 2
Let's begin in this case with Richard, and let's look for a
gate of love that's defined because that's going to be
where we begin looking for the theme. That's the verb;
that's the action. That's where the love dominates.
If you look at Richard's root center, he's got the 41 st gate
in the root center, and the root center is defined to the
emotional system. He's got the 55th gate in the emotional
system. "I don't know whether to fantasize or not. I don't
know whether I should fantasize about somebody else
or not. I don't know. Do I need to...?" It's all operating
through the 19/49. "Do I need to fantasize about
somebody else? I don't know if I need to fantasize about
somebody else." That's both the 55 and the 41 as gates
of love: neither one of them defined, both of them
adjectives of the 19/49. The 19/49 is the channel of
Synthesis and it has all these tribal, mystical qualities,
but at its core, it's about need. So, "Do I need to fantasize or not? And do I know if I need to fantasize or not?"
Now, what kind of love is somebody going to meet in that? Just think about it. It's so amusing to me the way love works.
If you go further into this design, you get to the 44, another gate of love. Remember, this is the gate of love that needs
fo find somebody to have success with. He was always broke, and what he did was send her out to collect money. He
was always broke, always, and she was the one that would go out and collect the money.
His 44 is in an open center. Think about what happens to him the moment that somebody makes that his 44 active. If
they can get money for him, he loves them. The moment Cosima wouldn't be able to bring in the money, the love would
go out the door, and it's conditioned that way, because it's not natural. This is an open center. It's an open center. It's not
53

=== стр 55 ===
54
something he could trust. It's not a love that he can trust. When you have a gate of love in an open center, this is where
you're always tested in love. When I say 'tested in love', it's not like there is an exam here. It's whether you survive it or
not. Being tested in love is very painful because it's not really you, but it attracts you.
What is not defined in us is always much more attractive than what is. So, he's more interested in the 44 coming alive
than he is in living out what he is. Where he belongs is: "Do I need to fantasize about somebody else or not?" Instead,
he ends up trying to find somebody who with him gets money. After all, this is an extraordinary composer. It wasn't as
if anybody was raising money for nothing. He saw his part of that, but he needed a manager, a money collector,
whatever the case may be. These were the ones he was going to end up being in love with, whether it was his agent,
his wife, whether it was anybody who was willing to say, "Ah, Richard nice music! Here, have some money." Then that
love is the love that would dominant.
Because it's inconsistent, because it's shallow, ultimately he would feel like, "Where's love?" And the moment that he
would get to that point, guess what would show up? "I don't know if I should fantasize about somebody else or not.
She's not bringing in the money, maybe I should fantasize about her being able to bring in the money." And the whole
trip gets caught up with the conditioning element in the love.
Let's look a little deeper into Richard's design. You're dealing with a split definition. If you look at the throat to the sacral
center, which is basically what this human being is, this is somebody who is busy leading. Mr. Charisma: he's busy
leading. But you'll notice, in all that 'busy leading', there's no love. In other words, the way he operates on the surface
as a manifesting generator is disconnected from all the themes of love that he has.
He's a split definition. We know that the deepest conditioning that exists is somebody who bridges your split. Think
about what happens when somebody bridges his split. The moment somebody comes into his life and bridges the split,
he immediately thinks, "I don't know whether I should fantasize about somebody else or not." Think about that. The
moment somebody bridges his split, he's looking at them and thinking whether he should think somebody else is better.
The moment that somebody comes into his life, somebody else might be more interesting.
The 19/49 is about resources. He's got the 14th gate. He's somebody who works hard and doesn't know if he is getting
anywhere. He's got the 44th gate of love and he really wants to have success. This is all dominated by material themes.
And those gates of love? You don't experience that with him when he's in his 20/34, 7/31 buzz. There is no love there.
There just isn't. He's waiting for that connection, and the moment that the connection comes he is immediately thinking,
"Will they do a good enough job? Do I need to think about somebody else doing it?"
Understand the power of the 41 st gate. It's the only gate of love that is wrapped up with sex. Now, if you have the 41st
gate as an adjective (here it is an adjectiveL all his needs are a confused fusion of love and sex. He cannot just
fantasize one way or the other. Everything about him, and everything about his ambition, the adjective of that ambition
is filled with love and sex, and they're not separate. Wherever that 41 goes, the moment it's integrated into that design,
the moment somebody meets him, again, those two themes are always there, mixed up in that 41.
And that 55 then permeates his whole body. It's not just simply, "I don't know whether I should think about somebody." It
becomes, "I don't know whether I should be busy leading or not," and it goes on and on and on and on. In other words,
the moment he meets somebody else, that's where he has to deal with love, and he's only going to get that through the way
in which he's conditioned. How he's conditioned is going to make a difference. If there is somebody in his life that doesn't
hook up his split, it's never there. He's never looking at them and somewhere inside of himself thinking, "Now that might be
interesting/' or, "Maybe somebody else would be better." It's not there because it's not integrated.

=== стр 56 ===
When you see something like thisl you know that every time somebody hooks that up, hels immediately in that dilemma.
Immediately. He would much rather go off on his own and just be busy: the individual freak in this person. IIJustl leave
me alone, I want to be busy. Then I donlt have to deal with all of that. II
Cosima
£
Personality
1050
155 (f)
143 (C
51 5£6
575U
545 ~
49 2 C;
V 54 2 d'
472 4-
14 1 '2
556
<1>
41 5 ':r
216~
Design
018 2
(f) 17 2
(C 47 1
£642 2
U32 2
~ 57 5
C;
443~
d' 44 5v
4- 40 2
'2
1 2
<1> 55 6
':r 41 4
~ 51 2
That 10/57 is a continued definition. She's a single
definition, and you can see that the 10/57 goes through
the 32/54 and you get down to the 41. Again, you get down to this theme of fantasy. You get down to this theme of,
III love you. You're imperfect. 1
1m going to think about somebody else. 1I But remember, the whole thing about the 41 st
gate is that the 41 st gate carries both love and sex. Now, think about that. She's deeply ambitious. This is all about
transformation, and transformation for her, as far as her body is telling her, is both. Here's somebody who had children,
who was marriedl and managed to get, not a divorce but an annulment from the Catholic Church. The Catholic Church
gave her an annulment that said that she never got married. She had two kids. She never got married. The guy was a
count. He was nobility. The Church gave her an annulment so she could leave him and marry Wagner.
With Richardl we have an emotional manifesting
generator. When we come to Cosima's design, we have
an unemotional projectorl and in looking at her design,
the First thing that you can see is that through the G centerl
she has both the 10th gate l the verb (it's part of a
definition), and she has the 15th gate. The 15th gate is
the adjective. You can see that the most dynamic theme
for her is perfecting her form. Ifs perfecting her form.
SOl there's a basic selfishness inherent in that, but therels
also the underlying theme that, IIlf I perfect my form, this
could be a way of helping all of humanity. The better I
am as a beingl the better it is for the totality/' in that
sense.
She was an enormously ambitious woman. In her whole movement upwardsl eventually she became a kind of figurehead
for the control of the whole Wagner business. SOl here is somebody in which all of that gets caught up in sex. Not just
love. It gets caught up in both of them and moves all the way up. And the 44 is sitting there in her defined spleen, and
says, IIWell, success is going to have to be with somebody else. 1I Built into her. SOl you have a very strong activation.
But the only theme that's the real verb there is that theme in the 10th gate. Everything comes back to her. Everything
comes back tO I IIlfs for me first. 1I There is a fundamental selfishness in that.
If you look at whars not defined, you will see that, again, these are the forces that pull you the most. She's got the 55.
Now, shels not somebody who saysl III donlt know. I donlt know. I donlt know, II until she meets somebody who defines
it. And the moment she meets somebody who defines it, you can see the two of them together, III donlt know if I love you.
I don'l know if I love you. But the money's good so far. And as long as the money is good so farl I don't have to go any
further than I don't know. So far irs okay.1I The moment they come togetherl that becomes a theme, and it becomes a
dynamic theme, and not for him. Ifs already there and everything for him, but in herl it becomes amplified. It becomes
a big issue. IIOh, I really don't know. 1I
55

=== стр 57 ===
56
The next thing is that she's got the 40th gate in an undefined ego. Guess what this woman thinks love is? Sacrificing for
the other. Classic. Not only that, but she's making the promise all the time. "I promise you, I'll go get the money and look
after to you. And you know, you'd better love me. Even though neither one of us knows if we should be together, but
the money's okay so far, and I'm only going to do this because that's what I think love is supposed to be. Love is
supposed to be me sacrificing myself so I can make it possible for you. And look at what I'm doing for you."
She was a projector, after all. She didn't like doing that. That's not natural. He used to send her off to Mad Louis of
Bavaria to get money, because Louis was in love with Richard, and she would have to go there and play the whole
game. And the only reason she did that was not her design, not what's is defined in her, but the love that isn't: the love
that's conditioned. The joke is that if you put their designs together, it's an undefined ego. It's the others who would step
into her life and literally bring that out: "Aha, that's what it's supposed to be." Every time she would bitch to one of her
friends, "Oh, geez, I have to go see Louis again to get money." It's the friend that would bring out of her, "Yes, this is
my act of love, this is what I should do. It's the right thing to do."
Human beings are forever getting trapped in these open centers with these active gates. I know what that's like. I
know, the moment you have a gate like that in an open center, wow, that's the place where everything gets sticky.
That's the place where every thing flies in and focuses on it. It says, "It's over here. It's over here." Instead of you
being where you are and should be, it's over there. "Ah, that's what it is, that's what I have to do."
And think about him. What a trap for him, this woman. The moment that she steps in there, his split goes away. The
moment she steps in there, she activates his 44. "I found the woman who's going to go out and help me get the money,
and I'm in love." And the fact that she would actually get the money and bring it back, "Oh, I can do a new opera. I
can do this. I can do that. You're terrific. I love you. You're wonderful." And then we think we're in love.
We think we're in love, and instead of living out what love really is for us, we end up living the love that is conditioned
by others, and in most cases, it's not just one way. You're conditioning that love in somebody, and they're conditioning
another one in you, and you're both lost in looking for love in each other through something that's not real. It's not
consistent. It's not you. It's not your definition, and you would never go there if you were correct.
When I say, 'never go there', I don't mean that it is not intended to be met. It is. I meet all kinds of 30's in my life with
my 41. It's intended for that. I had that archetype when I was younger. I have two sisters that have the 30. An archetype:
"It's over there." It's not me, but I can be very wise about desire. I know it, I understand it, and I know it's not me. I also
know that I can be it, that I can be in it if I'm correct. Not as my love, but as a way to my love.
See, conditioning is never bad. This is the whole thing. And awareness, being intelligent, understanding doesn't
heal that, or fix that, or make it better. Your strategy does. It's the only thing that protects you. It's the only thing that
protects you because it forces you to be correct, and because it forces you to be correct, you're only going to truly
resonate to what's correct for you. You'll notice right away how different those open center gates are when you're
correct. They're interesting. They're different. There's something you're here to learn. There's something you're here
to taste in order for you to live out what is your theme. It's not about ignoring. It's not about avoiding. It's not about
any of those things. It's not about saying, "Oh, I'm never going to be that." It's about being that when it's correct to
be that. Being that when it's correct to explore that.
This is the magic that's there when you see not-self couples like this. You can already, again, begin to hear the dialog
between them. She gets into her exhausted projector phase. She's a 5/2. She has to be self-motivated. She's transpersonal.
And she says, "No I don't want to go out. I don't feel/ike going and seeing them. Doing all that number and getting the

=== стр 58 ===
money./I And in that moment, he's immediately into, /l1'm going to think about somebody else. I'm going to fantasize
about somebody else. You're not fulfilling me. And how dare you not fulfill me when you're activating my 44!/I
The moment that the children came into their lives, that ego of hers got lit up. /ll'm doing this aliJor you./I She was a real
matriarch. "I'm doing this all for you. I did it for him. He's dead, the bastard. Now I'm doing it all for you./I She survived
forever. She survived into the Second World War. She was still sitting there with Hitler having tea. Quite a creature! /II
did it all for you. I did it for him./I
She never knew love. I mean, after all, if you live out your whole process through what's conditioned, you get to
experiment with a theme of love that's not you. It's just something else. It's a way in which you can meet the other. It's
a place of union. It's a place of investigation. It's an exploration. It's just a way.
When you're looking at charts and you're looking at gates of love, really look carefully in your design. Look to see
what the action is. Look to see if there are adjectives. Look to see where these open centers are and where those
gates are because in your whole process, that's been the place where you've been focused in an illusion. That's
where you've always been taken down a track that says, /lAh, that's what it's supposed to be./I
Desire was such a big deal for me that I got into so much trouble in my life. I had lovers while I was on my honeymoon.
I'd go down in the elevator, meet a woman, make love to her, come back in the elevator and go to my wife of two days.
An open 41 . It was like, ah, desire! This is love. Not that person upstairs. If the elevator ride had been longer, I may
never have gotten up there. I was ruled by desire, and desire was everywhere. It was like, /lOh, that's what it is. Oh,
that's what it is./I No. But I learned a lot. You get to learn a lot. You get to learn about what desire is and how it works.
I have the beginning and the end of desire. I'm a 41 and a 33. I know where it starts and I know where it ends. I don't
have to be in the middle anymore. But you get to watch those movies and you get to see how distorting it is. How cruel
that was that the love that I could express with the person I was with wasn't there because I was distracted by something
I'm not, and pulled away. Obviously, we ended up divorced. Desire was just there. It ruled everything. For me,
everything was about sex and love. If it wasn't about sex and love, what was it? It wasn't anything. I know how
distorting that can be.
So you really have to see for yourself. Look at those places and recognize that yes, yes, yes, interesting. It is, truly. Now,
I can meet desire on my terms. Because I don't want to live a life where there is no desire every once in a while. It's
lovely. But it's me. It's not that open center going, /lOh ... /I It's me, watching inside, being correct, letting the work move
me. Letting the program move me, not me hunting, chasing and seeking.
The only way we really get to the essence of love within ourselves is when we get to those places where love is defined.
Not everybody has that. Look at all the reflectors. Look at so many very open projectors. These are beings that don't
have that. They have a different process of discovering what love is, but it's never, never, never theirs. After all, it's just
understanding that there is love. Nothing else. But it's not theirs. It's not personal. It's not their theme. When you see that
within yourself, that's the place that, as you live out who you are, you begin to see that is your theme of love, because
you set to experience it.
57

=== стр 59 ===
Richard and Cosima
£
Richard Waaner
553020 1
693<:934 1
V 445~ 133
41f6
7 1
49 1'(j 13 1v
493 ~ 27 4
V 192 (}
86~
550" 41 2v
565 4-
312~
41 "2 54 5
4 l> 142
If'
54
224
Cosima Wagner
182010 5
172 Ef) 15 5
47 1<r 143
422f6 51 5
322'(j 57 5
575 ~ 54 5
~ 443 (} 49 2
V 4450" 542•
402 4- 472
~
12 "2 1
556 <1>
41 4 It' r415~
51 2
21 6
We have seen that there are different types of connectivity,
and that connectivity operates both relative to gates of
love and relative to non-gates-of-Iove, and we've been
looking at the basic kinds of ways that people connect.
If you look at Richard and Cosima's relationship for
example, he's a 31/7. She doesn't have anything there.
That's a dominance. It's not a gate of love, but it's a
dominance. So one of the things she knows about him is
that everybody sees him as a leader, because she sees
him as a leader. He has the whole channel of leadership,
and it's a dominance, so she knows that he's a leader.
They have compromise. If you look, you'll see that she
has the 32/54; he only has the 54. He has the whole
19/49 and she only has the 49, so she always has to
compromise to his needs. Always. They're both 49's.
He's the 19. She always has to compromise to his needs.
It's not about what she needs. It's always about what he
needs, when he thinks he needs, or whatever the case may be, but it's always about his needs. Of course, in dealing
with the not-self, this is a place where they are always fighting. He says, "Look, I need the money to do this." And she
says, "No, we need the money to do this." And he says, "No," and he always wins. It's compromise.
He wins on what they need, which is what he needs.
When we get to the other side, he has to compromise to her 32. Will she go out and get it? He doesn't get what he
needs until she goes out and gets it, and that really bothers him. Why don't you just go out and get it when I tell you to?
Why do I always wait for when you want to go out and get it? I need it now. You go out and get. So you can see where
the problems are in the relationship.
Let's look now at the electro-magnetics, at what happens when gates meet. You can see the 1 that she has to his 8. How
important that is for her. But that is not where there is love. There's just, "Yes, sometimes I love being a role model with
you and getting your creativity out and getting your contribution out and sometimes I hate it/' for both of them.
But when you come to their Integration, he's a 20/34; she's a 10/57. There's a lot of electro-magnetic there. Her 10 to
his 34: electro-magnetic. Her 10 to his 20: electro-magnetic. His 34 to her 57: electro-magnetic. In other words, what
you get to see is that there is a deep, deep love for her for him, and not the other way around. After all, it's her gate of
love that's meeting the electro-magnetic, and she's a projector. Her 10, through him, gets the generating of the 34 and
the manifesting of the 20. When people meet in Integration what you get is empowerment.
In fact, his love for her is empowering her to go out and to become-she really was an incredible force, this woman.
It empowered her to be this grand dame, and her love for him is deeper than his love for her. Deeper. There is no electro-
magnetic to a gate of his love. It's to hers. And by the way, it's not so much that she recognizes that in that way, because
again, remember, it's individual and it's Integration. It's simply that's the thing that makes him exciting. And of course,
she hates it, too. You know, "I love it. You know, it's great. I'm up here." At the same time, she hates because she has
58

=== стр 60 ===
to do things that she doesn't particularly want to do, but then she's conditioned to believe that that's the right thing to do.
"I'm sacrificing for you. I'm sacrificing for my children ..." (The illusion that's there in the 40.)
But the electro-magnetism that's there: she is a 15. He comes with the 5. Again, his electro-magnetic connection to her,
but not out of a gate of his love. Only hers. See, that's why she left a man with two children. That's why she left. There
was this incredible connection, electro-magnetic, the spark to her gates of love, and when you get that, you get hooked,
because that's what you're waiting for. It doesn't matter that she's already a 10/57. That form and the capacity to
perfect the form is not complete without the rest. As I taught you with the 10th gate, it's very complex. It's mundane. It's
anti-mundane. It opens up to all these different things.
See, she was in love with becoming an archetype. With him she becomes an archetype. She was in love with that, for
herself, 10th gate. "I love myself better with him because I am empowered to do this. And when the bastard's dead,
everything is going to be marvelous." She couldn't wait for the son of a bitch to die. "When the bastard's dead, it's
perfect. It's all for me. I love it that he got me here. But then, again I did it all for him. I made his music live and survive.
I built his temples."
Love is funny. Love is not what you think. And when you get to see the mechanics, you get to enjoy it. It's not the real
thing, remember. It's never the real thing. Never. We're not here, truly, to have that complete love. All of our loves are
aspects, are tastes and touches. And at the moment you go to those places that really you're here to explore, it's never
going to be complete. It can't, but you can really enjoy being that aspect of that theme and living out what that is
because it will make you feel good.
I identify with her. I'm a 10. I deeply understand that. I'm always in love with myself. Particularly now. I realize that no
love competes with that love. I will never love anybody as much as I love me. Never. I'm too individual for that. I really
love myself. That's great, but I also see that I have an enormous capacity through that love of myself to empower people,
and to empower them with my love. They get confused. They think I love them. It's with my love. That self-love in me is
a very powerful force of love. It's transcendent. It's not personal. That's what she was all about, and he gave that to her.
So not that she was thinking, "Oh I love Richard." No, she was thinking, "I hope the bastard dies. Oh, I'm beginning
to really enjoy being me." And how nice for her. That's what it was all about.
She got to live out the theme. The whole time. Even while he was going to his grave, he was thinking, "I don't know if
I should fantasize about somebody else or not. I really don't know." There was nobody to hook it up. There was no 39
that would have made all that so different for him. There was no 30. None. He didn't get the electro-magnetics. He
didn't get that spark that comes with electro-magnetism. Electro-magnetism in a gate of love is really something special.
It's like, wow!
So often, it's one-sided. Someone hooks up yours and you don't hook up theirs. It's the way that it goes in the world. As
long as you're not being correct and you're not following your strategy, you end up with these awkward situations
where you both don't get to have the experience you deserve with each other. You get that by being correct.
59

=== стр 61 ===
60
I've taken you through these ten gates and the importance of understanding the thematics and of recognizing that those
thematics obviously work in different ways depending on the quality or the type of connectivity. Everything that I've
shared with you up until now is what you could really work with now. In other words, it's a way in which you can look
into your designs. It's a way in which you can see these things. It's a way in which that you can begin to understand
how love works for you and for others in your life, and also to understand the way in which you attract those others.
But I want to talk for the rest of the time that we have left about just three themes: centers, type and profile, because
these three themes represent connectivity at an entirely different level. They also represent connectivity that isn't really
significant now, and the reason it's not significant now is that the world is ruled by not-self. Now, the not-self
genetically is only interested in what it is not, and the awakened genetics is only looking for what it knows. This is
very different. So, when you're dealing with the not-self and the not-self world, everything that you're not becomes
interesting, so we have this not-self world in which the attraction is always opposites. The defined centers to the
open centers. The strong with the weak. The tall with the small. The blonde with the black, and on and on and on.
We have all of these variations, all of these themes of difference being attractive.
I know that the major reason that relationships are such a dilemma is because of this not-self way of connectivity. That is
connectivity based on something that's worth having because it's not who you are. "That's more interesting because it's not
me. I want that because it's not me." All of this leads you into all of the not-self pain and all of the not-self suffering.
Centers: A Basis for Relating
Look for a moment at the two charts on the next page, and look at the centers. They only have two centers in common,
the G and the Root. At a level that is very, very difficult to imagine, again because of the complexity of humans and their
interactions, is that this is truly the place where they connect to each other, aside from the other stuff. Again, I'm not
talking about specifics of gate themes now and inter-eonnectivity. If you have a defined identity and you're with
somebody who has a defined identity, identity is not a problem. Identity is not disturbing. Identity is not a question, and
identity becomes a theme of comfort and relaxation.
If you have two beings that are adrenal, they take great comfort in their both being adrenal. It's a real connection
between them because they have the same kind of power source within them. It's like me with ego beings. I love being
around ego beings. I'm such a big ego, and I love being around ego beings because they don't have a problem with
my ego. They have big egos too. It's great. Now, we can all walk around with big egos and we don't care. Everybody
else does. "Look at those big egos." But if you have an ego and it's defined and you're with an ego person that's
defined, you don't have an ego problem. You don't. There's this, "They're like me."

=== стр 62 ===
It's like emotional people together. You bring emotional people together
and emotion isn't in the story. It isn't. But you bring somebody with a
defined emotion together with somebody with an undefined emotion.
Boy, do you have a story! All that rocking and rolling on the wave,
amplified.
The joke is that the not-self thinks, "Wow, that's great! That's what I want.
I want somebody to give me something that's not me that I think is me,"
and you're lost. When you look at your design and somebody else's
design, and you look at the two of them together, if you really want to
find out what gives you the first level of relating, you look at the centers
you have in common. The moment you see those centers that you have in
common, oh boy, do you get a picture right away, because then you
know something. It's not about love in concretized form that you get
through the themes. It's not about that. It's about this sense of, "Aha!
They're like me. They're just like me. If you look at somebody's design,
you immediately discover what is the foundation of your relationship to
them and them to you, because it's what's mutual.
No matter how different Alok's defined ajna center is to mine [Alok is
Ra's friend, Spanish translator and long-time student of Design], we
both have defined ainas. They're very, very different in the way they
work, very different in the way they're connected, but I'm comfortable
with his fixed mind. I've got a fixed mind, too. When I'm with an open
mind, I know how different that is because I'm immediately aware of
the Fact that there is an ampliFication with business going on. I can tell
right away, and so mind becomes a dilemma. It just becomes a dilemma
in the relationship because it's not comFortable. The not-selF says, "Oh,
I like that." Yeah, yeah.
DeSign
055 3
Ef) 59 3
<t 44 5
66
4 1
'0'49 1
l( 49 3
9 19 2V
d'
55
2t 56 5
"254 1
o144
If!
55
101 22 2
DeSign
018 2
Ef) 17 2
<t 47 1
66 422
'0'32 2
I( 57 5
9 44 31.
d' 44 5v
2t 40 2
"2
12
o55 6
If! 41 4
101 51 2
£
Personality
20 10
34 1(f)
133<t
7\0
v 131'0'
274 l(
I.
86 9
v 41 2 d'
I. 31 2 2t
545 "2
142 0
54 If!
224101
£
Personality
1050
155Ef)
143 (C
51566
57 5'0'
54 5 I(
49 2 9
v 542 d'
472 2t
14 1 "2
556 0
41 5 If!
21 6 101
Every undefined mind I know that gets suckered into a defined-mind-relationship really ends up in trouble, mentally
conditioned all the time. Again, I'm talking about the not-selF. He has an undeFined selF. I don't. I don't identify with him
that way. That's not where I'm comfortable with him. Alok has a defined ego; so do I. So, I know that his mind and his
ego are something I'm comFortable with. He's got a defined spleen. So do I. Those are the three centers that we have
in common. That's the basis of our relationship. It's the basis of it.
The rest of it? The rest of it is the glamour and the chimera where you can get lost. No matter how much I can accept his
emotional system, I'm never going to be comFortable with it because it's not me. It's not about whether it's clean or not.
It's just not me. I'm never going to be comfortable with his root. It's not me. I don't have a fixed root. His head center,
I don't have that. Nor he with my G. He can never fully be comFortable with that because it's not the basis of who we
are. We are mind, ego and :>pleen, and every time we have a dilemma, the only place that saves us are those three
centers we have in common because that's where we meet at the most basic, fundamental level. We have a similar
frequency out of those and it's out of that that we find basis of a relationship.
It doesn't matter whether it's he and I as colleagues and Friends, or whether it's lovers or whatever the case may be. And
it's not about lamenting that they're not all the same. It's not about that. It's about the insight that it gives you, because
61

=== стр 63 ===
62
it says to me that I can always work out something with him as long as I'm healthy. As long as I deal with it through my
ego and through my awareness that's there in my aina. In other words, that's where I can solve any dilemma with him
because that's the only place we really meet, at the basis of what we are.
So when you look at charts, remember, for me it's all just simple, visual stuff. When you look at a chart and you see two
charts together, look right away what centers do they have in common. It tells you so much about where you can start
from in a relationship and the place you can go to when you're in trouble. I can't work out my problems with him
emotionally. He can't work them out through my identity. We can work them out mentally. We can find ways in our three
centers where we meet where we can find that there's no tension. There's no tension.
I know what it's like to be given gates and themes of love and then you're looking at this and that: this connection and
that connection, blah, blah, blah. Before you get there, look at the centers in common and you will see right away
where you can work with them. My eldest son has three defined centers; two of them I don't have. The only thing we
have in common is our identity. It's the only place we meet. So that's always going to be the foundation of our
relationship. It's always going to be where our relationship is. It's in the self. It's there. It's not in his sacral or his
emotions, because that's not me. When you know where the basis of a relationship is, where you know where the core
of that relationship is, then you can begin to see what's solid and what can be reinforced, despite all the things that are
there.
I know that there's going to be a time in the future where being matched, in that sense, by centers is going to be so
important. It's not having them all matched, but it's about seeing certain centers. If you're only taking them in as
amplification, they're so risky that they belong outside of what is the closest of relationships and you can explore with
them.
But in looking at designs, look and see what they have in common because it tells you everything about what it is all
about, what the basis is and out of where you really can begin to flower, because the more you realize where the core
is, the less you are concerned about the other stuff. The less the other stuff is distorted. It simply becomes interesting. It
simply becomes an aspect of the other that you can become wise about. But where you meet, and it doesn't matter what
you are, it doesn't matter where your designs are, you look at those centers. It will tell you everything about what the
basis of your bond is.
Genes Will Be Genes
We're in an evolutionary, mutative process. Again, when I take you back to the genetics, the only reason that we focus
on what we are not is that that's what the genes demand for reproduction. It's only about reproduction. And remember
the genes don't care about us. They don't care we have a hard time being conditioned by somebody else. They don't.
What they care about is that in terms of genetics the only way you're going to be able to continue the specie and have
healthy, fresh material is that opposites need to attract, so they can get this constant blending and changing of the
genetic material.
Sameness, when it comes to reproduction, is a dead-end street. You know, if you've got a closed-off village in the
mountain somewhere that's never expanded outwards, eventually you get retardation. You get weird things. In other
words, the genetic pool is too narrow; there's not enough difference, and it becomes something that's very dangerous.
So that you can see that, biologically and genetically, we are really helpless at this stage, because the genetics run our

=== стр 64 ===
life. After all, we are a living specie. We are here to reproduce. In all living species, the primary objective is to keep
continuity alive. Keep on reproducing, keep the specie alive. Keep on producing. Keep on producing. All the genes are
in that movie. They're all on a string. They're n the movie together, and they're all saying this is the way. The way is that
the moment that anything is different, that anything is not you, that's the moment that, "Aha we can get new genetic
material with this one." $0 we end up in an age-old trap of being caught in the attraction to opposites and then suffering
because we know that that attraction is basically centers.
You're attracted to the centers that you don't have. It's the way our genes are working. I know that we're entering into
an age in which the reproductive capacities of humanity are being deteriorated to the point that they will be destroyed.
I know that. I know that it is a great challenge for humanity, that is, the challenge to transcend sex as a medium of
reproduction. We have all the experiments going on all around us. That we will get to a point where, as a specie, we're
supposed to be dead and we don't die. That's our transcendence. Our transcendence is we should be extinct but we're
too smart. We can play God. We can create life, and thus we can keep the specie going.
Now, the moment that humanity genetically is not responsible for mating (for making sure that you've got the right
oppositesL what you have is a natural tendency that will emerge that looks for sameness: the exact polarity. When he
said before, "No, no, no/' to all of them, he was right in the context of what we are now. We need the other. We need
to learn the difference. We need to see where we can be secure and where we can learn.
But the future? The future is: if you've got three centers defined, you're going to end up being attracted to somebody
whose same three centers are defined, and then you're really comfortable. And when I say that, please take this in
correctly. This is not a pressure on you to look at the world around you and say, "Oh, I've got problems because my
partner has all these things that I don't have." It's really not the point. It's really not the point. It's not about changing
that. You'll see that if you live out your true nature, and you're awake now, with the way your genes operate, you're still
going to be attracted to the opposite. The advantage that you have is that because you can enter into correctly and you
know what it is, it's not as disturbing or the damaging conditioning that the not-self experiences all the time.
We do not have a natural tendency to select sameness. Genetically it's still boring. If take two people that have exactly
the same design and you bring them to a party, the chances are they won't meet each other. There's no, "Oh, that's
different. What is that? What is that?" It's not there. We're still in that game, and we're not going to get out this, none
of us. I didn't get out of it. You don't get out of the game. It's in our genes. There's nothing we can do. We are what our
genes make us.
So, it's important to see that when you're looking at a relationship now from your state of awareness, from your
capacity to be awake, for you to be clear that in any relationship with anyone, even if it's one center, it doesn't matter.
As a matter of fact, sometimes one center makes it easy. Then you have a focus. You can see that this really is the basis
of your bond when you're awake. You don't need all the other to reproduce. You need all the other to become wise, to
free yourself of the pain that you've been through in this life. To free yourself of the dependencies. To free yourself of all
this blind hunger for what you're not. And to see that yes, it's interesting. It will always remain interesting for us. But at
the heart, if you want to solve problems, if we want to see why we're with somebody if we want to see the place that
binds us fogerhe"
ir's nor all rhese gores and all that stuff. Those are just themes. Remember, there's no real love anyway.
It's just themes.
Comfort? See I know there's going to be a time when you're going to be face to face with somebody forever. Now,
you'd better be comfortable with that. If you're not comfortable with that face, wow is that ever a long, bad ride. This
is what we're here to learn. We're here to discover that, in comfort, lies peace. Whoever is in my life, whoever I care
63

=== стр 65 ===
64
about, I always know those places where I can relate to them, where there is no chimera of amplification, where there
is no old memory of negative conditionings that came through those centers, where there is a commonality. In that
commonality, I can find why there is comfort for me to be with that being and where that comfort is. For me, ego comfort
is different than identity comfort, than throat comfort, than ajna comfort, than spleen comfort. Or combinations. And I
begin to see the different levels of comfortableness that I have. I begin to really appreciate it. I begin to see how
beautiful that is. I begin to see how nice it is.
Many years ago when I really couldn't afford it, I bought an incredible chair. A chair I love to sit in. It's a great chair.
I've dragged that chair back and forth across the Atlantic Ocean and I want haul it to Ibiza. When I sit down in that
chair, I don't have to think about being in a chair. It's just perfect. It's so comfortable. It's just perfect.
And you see, that's what I look for now in my relationships with the other. Where's that comfortable chair that we can
sit without tension? Where's that comfortable chair where we can just enjoy the view? Just the view. I always have this
image of the old couple sitting on their veranda with the highway going by in front, the two of them just sitting there in
their comfortable love seat together staring at the cars going by. Perfect. And neither one of feels compelled to sit there.
And neither one of them is blaming the other that's all they can do.
There was a thing I saw on American TV, it was one of the funniest things I saw. Two guys, a father and a son, for 25
years they've been sitting on their front porch and waving at every car that goes by. And you can see, it's perfect.
They're so comfortable. There's no pressure. There's no anything. You're not trying to impress. You know, when two ego
people are talking they can't impress each other. It's not possible.
This is the beauty of being comfortable. We don't know that. We have to learn that. We have to learn that because
we're not genetically ready, our awareness is ahead of the curve. It's one of our dilemmas to see that if we are going
to live our nature, we're going to get closer and closer and closer to seeing the comfort as being more important than
the wisdom.
When I started my process with you, I kept on saying, "Go to the wisdom. Find the wisdom. Understand it so you can
see what it is, because that's the first step. You have to understand what conditioning has done to you." I had to
understand what emotional beings do to me. But I will never be comfortable with them. I can love them, I can enjoy
them, I can go through the whole thing with them, but that's not the chair where I'm going to wave. That's not the chair
where we're going to sit together and we both feel terrific. I know that. And now in my life there is really this balance.
I can always go to those places and I can see, this is where the comfortable chair is, so let's relax over here. Let's get
as far away from that other stuff as we can because we don't have to deal with that.
You see, the moment that human beings are acting according to their nature that naturally is going to start happening.
We're going to be less and less attracted to what is dangerous and uncomfortable for us. We're going to be more and
more attracted to what's comfortable and natural for us. And I tell you only that your children and your children's
children will begin to know that much better than we do. We're in the de-conditioning process. We're going through this
whole thing. And the idea that we're going to be able to fight the genes tooth and nail down the line because as long
as we're reproductive, that's what the genes are doing. They're pulling us always to what we're not.
So, I want you to pay attention to what you share with somebody. Don't be concerned about what you don't share with
them. Look to see what you do share. Then you'll begin to understand how you can have a relationship with them, and
how special that can be because in those places, if you focus your relationship to where you really are comfortable, all
the other stuff is just stuff. It's just stuff. But it never touches that comfortable place where you can be together.

=== стр 66 ===
Connecting Through Profile
There are many levels of connectivity. We've seen where the connectivity of the centers are very important to us: to be
able to see those places where we have commonality, and to be able to recognize that out of that commonality lies the
foundation for the way in which we can successfully be with each other. But also see very clearly that our awareness of
that is very different from what remains our biology. This is not about my saying to you, "Only be interested in those in
which you have commonality through centers." It's not possible. It is not possible in the way in which our genes operate.
What you can do is to enter into things correctly as yourself through your strategy, in order to get to those combinations
that are correct for you. Whatever that is going to be, it will be the right balance between what is comfortable and what
is there to be learned, experienced, recognized and taken in as part of connecting to others in life.
The same is true for these next two levels of connectivity that I will close with. That is, there is one way to see them in the
context of the not-self and in the context of our biology and genetics as we are now, and also, a recognition that it is
something that will truly be different in the future.
This has to do with profile. And it begins with the simplest quality of profile, which is angle. There is an enormous
difference, as there is a difference between the head center and the sacral. You'd better believe there is a difference
between the head center and the sacral. There is an enormous difference between left angle and right angle. There just
is. They're different.
Now, again, given the genetics of what we have, the genetics are saying to us, right angle and left angle should come
together. By the way, mathematically that doesn't work unless you're a left angle like me and you've ended up with
many wives, because the proportions aren't right. You know, there are seven for the right and four the left. You know,
give me a break! So, the first thing to be clear about is that genetically, even though our disposition is something
different, the right angle is attracted to the left angle, and the left angle is attracted to the right angle because it is a
basic difference. It's a difference.
As you know by now, I love music, and I've always seen the hexagrams through their music, and the structure of the
hexagram through its music. That music is only based on two qualities, in terms of compatibility and connectivity, and
that is resonance and harmony. In the structure of the hexagram, the one and the four are harmonic. The two and five
are harmonic. The three and the six are harmonic. The moment that you have left angle and right angle together, if there
is no resonance or there is no harmony, then you're going to have problems, and you're going to have problems that
will come out of that basic difference of right angle being self-absorbed and left angle looking for its transpersonal
connections.
This is a very, very basic difference. There will be a time when it simply will not be correct for angles to mix in bonds
because like having the center that is similar, there is this resonance that is there, this comfort: the similarity that is so
difficult for the not-self to appreciate and so difficult for the not-self to see that that's what you really want. Not that thing
that you're not. What you'll notice, because it's a real signpost for you, is that when you enter into a relationship with
somebody, iF you're a right angle with a left and vice a ver:;a, look to :;ee in the profile: is there harmony? Is there
resonance? If there isn't, you have not entered into that correctly. That is not going to work. In order for left angle and
right angle to find a way to be together, they can only do that through resonance or harmony. The only way.
65

=== стр 67 ===
66
So, I'm a left angle 5/1 and Alok is a right angle 1/3, and our resonance is the 1: the Foundation, the education,
getting to the truth, digging deep inside, going deep down into the introspection. No matter that he is the most selF-
absorbed of the right angle, and I'm the most transpersonal of the left angle, that 1 gives our relationship legitimacy. It
is through that 1, through that resonance, that we Find in each other the bridge to cross our diFFerences.
The same is true with harmony. IF he's a 1/3 and he meets a 4/6, the 3 and the 6 is a harmony; the 1 and the 4 is a
harmony. The moment that there is that harmony, that's the moment you know there's a bridge between the left and the
right, and it's a bridge that is essential, because iF left angle and right angle are going to be together, without those
bridges, it cannot work. It just can't.
I like signposts. It's what I love most of all about proFiling. By understanding the nature of your costume, you get to see
over time how you begin to Fit into it because you're being more and more correct. That wonderFul signpost in relationships
is that we are intended to mix left and right, but we're only intended to mix when there is a bridge For us to cross. That
bridge has to be there. So it's something For you to look at in all of your relationships when it comes to angle. Whether
it's your child, your lover, your Friend, whatever it is, look to see where that bridge is and iF it is there, and then you Find
the way.
By the way, the bridge tells you so much. l's learn a great deal from each other. He learns about the transpersonal
heretic. I learn about the personality that is only focused on foundation. You learn. That's the bond that's there in the 1.
Wherever you go, you'll see that in those harmonies and resonances, it's beautiful because there's real learning that
takes place across that divide. And it's a great divide.
Calculating the Bridges
It's easy to Figure out which proFiles contain bridges to your profile. You take your proFile: I'm a 5/1 . You add on the two
harmonies. To the 1 there's a 4. To the 5 is the 2. So, for me, anybody who has any of these four numbers, the 1,2,4,
or 5, in their profile have got a bridge. Whether that bridge is going to be a resonance or harmony doesn't matter. And
by the way, harmony isn't better than resonance. As a matter of fact, resonance isn't better than harmony. Harmony is
actually, almost more alive because there is union in diFFerence and it actually makes for a clearer bridge. Regardless,
there is no real qualitative diFFerence.
What's important is that it exists. If it doesn't exist, it doesn't connect. So iF I look at myselF and I've got the 1, 2, 4 and
5, that means the 3 and the 6 are missing. Right? They are not a bridge for me. His 3 is not a bridge for me. I don't
know what the hell it is. As a transpersonal being, that's not what I connect to. I have other ways of having a sense of
that. I have a 3rd line mind so I can sort of know all about that, but that's not a bridge.
If he were a 3/6 or a 6/3, there would be no bridge to me at all, other than the fact that if it were a 6/3, we would both
be transpersonalleft angle, and there is a similarity in the being of left angle. But even then, there's no real bridge to
that. The moment you recognize that, you can understand why certain things don't get across. They just don't get
across, no matter how much you'd like it to get across.
Think about all the changing proFiles. Changing proFiles are harmonies. The 1/4, the 2/5, the 3/6, the 4/1, the 5/2,
and the 6/3. Six of the twelve profiles are changing profiles. Now, they're less of the population because it's a smaller
arc, but think about this: they don't have four bridging gates. They're the changing profiles. They actually are creating

=== стр 68 ===
bridges between the main profiles. They only have two, so they can only make a bridge with those that have one of
those two that are already them, and there are four where there are no bridges.
So think. This is not about the future when people are going to operate correctly and they're going to be correct, so
you're going to have the right kind of connection. This is now. It's now, and we're ruled by our genes. It's very important
when you're looking at what you enter into as a relationship, that you see where those things are, that you recognize
where the bridges are because you're going to need them.
If you're left angle and right angle together, without the bridge, there is only the castle. The bridge becomes the way in
which you meet. You meet through the bridge. There is no other way. So, if you have one aspect, you have one number
where you meet, that's where you meet. And then you can begin to see, if you're living correctly, that that's exactly how
you deal with each other. That's exactly where you meet them.
One of the jokes is that left angles generally end up with right angles because they find other left angles too confusing.
If you're left angle and you're transpersonal there is a mechanism of recognition for the other that is not direct. In other
words, it's almost mystical and comes from some place else. It may be past life. It may be a recognition of somebody
on your fractal, whatever the case may be.
If you're very sensitive as a left angle, everybody that you meet, you know in some way. I have the same thing with all
of you. Now, if you're the not-self and you don't understand how all this works, it gets rather confusing because you
don't really know who to select. The fact that you recognize somebody doesn't mean they're for you. It just means that
you recognize them, and there are all these people to recognize.
When I was my not-self, every time I recognized somebody I thought that it meant something, other than the fact that I
recognized them. So then I would get in and try to do something about all that, which got me always into a lot of
trouble. It's just the left angle's joke, so the left angle ends up with the right angle because the right angle doesn't know
who the hell the left angle is. Doesn't know. Doesn't recognize it. Doesn't remember. Has no idea of their relationship.
None whatsoever. And then there's no problem. There's no confusion.
Left angles and right angles are different. They're different. Without the bridges there's no way. So, that's one thing that
you really have to look for. It's one of these basic, basic, basic things to see when you look at a couple of charts, to see,
all right, where's the love, where's the definitions, yes, yes, yes, but, the real basic stuff. Not the little themes that you
work with on the surface of your neocortex. The real basic thing: where are you comfortable? Where do you meet?
That's what profiles are all about. Where do you meet?
This is your geometry. What kind of costumes are you going to be comfortable with? If you're walking down the street
in rags and you're with somebody who is in a tuxedo, there's something wrong, unless there's a way to bridge that,
because the costumes are so different. All of our costumes are different. So this is one of those very basic platforms to
look for. It's not to make any kind of enormous thing out of it. It just lets you know right away, okay, there's a place to
meet, and then you can enjoy where you meet and not where you don't.
I remember the day Alok came for his reading. I remember watching him come into my casita. I looked at him and I had
this old, old thing that I get: a kind of funny buzz. I thought, uOh, well, that's good. I know this one." And he sits down
and I look at his chart, and I think, "Ah, the allies I get." I was looking years and years and years ahead. But our
experience is in the moment. You know, he is somebody who is so right angle (the 1/3 profile), somebody who is so
67

=== стр 69 ===
68
deeply in his process, and there I was looking at him now. I could see now. I could see all of that. You sit there and you
look at that and you think, "Ah, yes." And they don't know. You can't share that.
[Alok says: You know what he told me? I saw we had no companionship in our chart. So I asked him, what does that
mean? He said, "We're not going to spend a lot of time physically together in this life."]
The Future of Type
There's one more place to go, and the place that we go, the place we begin, where everything about Human Design
becomes truth and becomes possibility is in type. Type is a magical thing. It really is. To be able to have such a clean,
clear mechanical way to be able to transform human beings, to be able to open up. Extraordinary opportunities for
them for awareness.
Type is something that is consistent. It's reliable. It's substantiated. It's a real thing. You can already begin to see that. I
know that because I have people in my life who have become awake through Human Design. I get to see its validity. I
get to see the reality of that. Not simply as a theory, but a practice and reality.
So type is something really extraordinary. It's one of the basic platforms, but the reality is, again, and please understand
this because I don't want to set it up in you that you yearn for something that's not correct. I just want you to see that
there is difference between what we are as a transition consciousness moving towards a different kind of future, where
we move beyond the control of the genes because we do the engineering. When we do the engineering, it's a different
game. It's why we work so hard at developing genetic engineering. And Human Design is the easiest way to understand
how to do that.
Type is something where types belong with type. But that's the future. It is not now. It's something you can recognize,
though. It's obvious. When generators are with generators, when manifestors are with manifestors, when projectors are
with projectors, and so forth and so on, there is an obvious similarity, comfort, ease. There just is. It's natural.
Remember what type truly represents: it represents the true way in which hierarchy is established and in which true class
divisions are established, without one being better than the other, without any moral comparison. But we are, in the four
types, four very distinct forms of human. Ultimately, we will only really be comfortable with each other. Not only that,
we will only truly be productive with each other.
I've had a great deal of fun in our time together this trip. I really enjoyed that. I enjoyed with a deep, deep deliciousness
being in a room with generators for two days, because, you see, I work a lot of classrooms. I've been teaching a long
time, and that was the first time that I ever taught in a room in which I could not distinguish the vibration. There was only
one buzz, and I could feel in that one buzz a kind of union that, in all my years as a teacher, I never got to experience.
It's something very special to see.
And how different it was when we started Love. You know, the projectors come. The manifestors come. All of a sudden
this room, my three open motors, this room does not have a single buzz. It does not. It's not cacophony. It's not
uncomfortable for me. I'm used to it. But at the same time, it's not this specialized vibration. I'm looking forward to next
month when I'm going to be doing these classes for same-type only, to see what vibration is like. I want to be in a room
with only manifestors. I want to see what that's like. I want to kick their asses and I don't want to embarrass them in front
of generators.

=== стр 70 ===
And I realize that in myself. When I meet manifesting women, there's something about them that's very attractive to me.
I like the way they move. I like the feel of their energy field. I mean, they're manifestors. They're like me, something
familiar. But my conditioning, (my generator mother, my open sacral and on and on), my conditioning is so different.
The genes are still ruling what is interesting, and I know that. Even though I am correct, manifesting women don't make
up a big part of my life. They just don't. Because the genes rule.
You have to see that there is a tendency for energy types and non-energy types to be able to be relatively comfortable
with each other, and that generators can find relationship with manifestors and vice a versa, simply because they're
energy types. But they're different. The manifestor has to ask, the generator has to respond. That is about as different as
anything can be. You can't imagine anything more different than that. And just the idea that they manage to do that
together, sort of, is really incredible, because they're so different.
Type is something that is really an extraordinary barrier if you're not operating according to your own type. See, if you're
operating correctly and you're a generator, and a manifestor steps into your life, or a projectors steps into your life, or a
reflector steps into your life, and you go, "Uh-huh," it's okay. Yes, there will always be that difference, just as there are
differences in profile. But with profile we know there's a bridge. And with type, the only bridge is your strategy.
If I actually could get to a place where I inform somebody who's a different type than me, that that's, "I want them," I can
do nothing but accept that that's correct. If a projector is invited by a generator or a manifestor to enter into their life,
after all, if they got the invitation, if they respond according to their nature, it's correct, even though there is this divide.
When I look at this and I think about it, it is a way in which, because of the differences of type, at least in this phase,
that each can learn how to help the other be their type. The generator can insist that the manifestor inform. And the
manifestor can inform and insist that the generator respond. In other words, they can teach each other, whatever the
combination are, there are so many combinations.
But again, that's not going to work unless you enter into it correctly. If you enter into it correctly, that's the bridge, and
you can see then why there is so much difficulty in the world. You can see that. Because the basic platform only operates
correctly in our genetic way now when you're being correct, only then can you cross that. Only then can you cross those
divides of type.
The most difficult is for non-energy to be with energy. It's the most difficult. And it's not difficult for the energy who
dominates, but for the non-energy that is so deeply conditioned. For them to be awake and to be able to enter into those
relationships correctly is their only way of surviving a relationship with a completely different form.
You see, type, in the end, is everything. It's the basic platform. It's why 15 years after Design came into the world,
there's finally a way to make it easy for people, and it's all through type. This is really the thing. So no matter what our
genetics are, no matter what your profile is, no matter what this is and that is, no matter what your gates of love are, no
matter what the connectivity is, please recognize the simple truth. Live your strategy. There isn't anything else. If you live
your strategy, all the components, all of them, fall into their right place. You get the right fractal. You meet the right
forces. And yes, there ore differences.
But this is our time of being able to know there's differences, know that it's not the future and have the intelligence and
awareness to work our way through this process. It's a way we learn from each other at the highest possible level of
awareness. But you can only do that when you enter into it correctly. This is the magic. It's this magic. Follow the
mechanics.
69

=== стр 71 ===
70
I am in the last year of my touring and, having that in front of me, there are many things I want to teach and many things
I would like to get out. But not for the moment. I'm glad you're all here. It pays for history. You make it possible for us
to be able to do this, for me to be able to say this, for him to do this translation for us, to be able to create material that's
available for people in the future so that they who want to understand the deeper level can. I always appreciate that,
that there are those who come for this level of knowledge, for the experience for us to be together, because it's a
pleasure for all of us to be together.
But you know, from my perspective, who cares about all this shit. No, really. My heart is with awaking. That's where my
heart is. It's with the awakening. Yes, I appreciate good, educated people, I do. I appreciate the dedication, the years
of involvement. I understand all that. But I know that this information is part of showing how deep, how profound, and
how one day specialists working with this or that or the other in taking material into deeper investigations and understand
how you relate, blah, blah, blah. All of that is terrific. But this is not a training. This is just a course.
The truth is always the same. It's about awakening. It's about your type. It's about your strategy. It's not that I want to
keep banging that into you. I'm banging it into the camera. Most of you are professionals, and good ones, and that the
waking up of the outside is just waiting. It's just waiting for us to do that. It's waiting for you to do that, and we have the
tools, simple tools.
Don't start telling somebody about all the damn gates of love. This connectivity, that connectivity. This center, that
profile. This thing. You know, their minds begin to melt down. It's not important. I know it's not important. I know that.
Because I know the moment that you're living correctly as yourself, you're going to get it all. You're going to get it all.
You're going to get what's for you, which means you're really going to get it. Because that's the point.
And it's the point for the outside. It's the point for the world out there that all of this stuff is wonderful. It's nice. It's great.
It's fun. It's fun to look at it. It's fun to have those experiences, "Aha." Or to laugh. Or to see the humor in the way you
meet the other and blend the this and that. To have that kind of funny laugh that says, "Oh no, oh wait a minute." All
of those things. It's great. It's entertaining. This is entertainment. I'm an entertainer. You're an entertainer.
The truth? What this is really about is telling people, look, you're this and you're that and this is the way it works. And
try this. Try to respond. Try to inform. Try to wait for the invitation. Try it. Go ahead. This is the experiment. And when
it works for you, you can come back and ask me about the rest of it. I'll teach you. It's okay. We've got lots of stuff. I'll
teach you about all the gates of love, but first start being yourself because it's more important than you finding out the
gates of love. Much more important.

=== стр 72 ===
I've gone through 15 years of expanding Human Design knowledge because it had to be done. Not because that was
the point. It's never been the point. The point is waking people up. Waking them up. But because it's a science, because
it's logic, because it's legitimate, all the things have to be there. And we will and always will need scholars of this
knowledge. We know all that. But that's not the point of Human Design, to be something interesting to study. The point
of Human Design is that it's here truly to help humanity. It's here truly to help each and every human being. There's no
barrier between this knowledge and any human being at any level of life.
It's simple enough, and it can be delivered simply now. Now. And so yes, it's fun. It's nice. I'm glad to share all that with
you. I'm glad that it's in the can. It's all terrific. But the job? The job is waking people up. We have beautiful knowledge
that we've shared together. And the more beings we can involve in that, the better the world is for us. Better it is for each
and everyone of you to have those beings around you when you wake up, that you point on a track of awakening
because it's not a big deal. And the closer you come to fulfilling your nature, the easier and easier it is for you to
transform those that are around you.
Generators with their incredible power of their sacral, that once they are truly real within themselves, they have
enormous power to transform cycles. Enormous power. It's just there. One awake sacral is like a bell that never stops
ringing. It just never stops ringing, and it wakes people up. It's what it should be. That's the point. That's our gift.
Yes, you can be deep in this knowledge. You can know many, many things. I know that. I know so many things that
when I look at a chart, if I think that way, I have a lifetime of work to describe. And I don't. I just look for these colors.
I look for what is. Just the obvious. Just the simple, because that's the truth. And the moment you can begin working with
your truth, then there is time, if you're interested, to know about the gates of love.
71

=== стр 74 ===
90000 >
ISBN 9781463745271
Produced by Human Design America
under license from Jovian Archive Corporation
Human Design America
The Human Design System

